<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Prologue</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<h1 aria-level="1" class="prect" id="prologue" role="heading"><span id="page_1"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sprologue"><em>Prologue</em></a></h1>
<p class="ftxt">The fate of Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, continues to arrest public attention. It does not tend to be generated from universal sympathy for the couple, nor from the widespread criticism they provoke. Rather, many across the globe are intrigued by whether they will continue to thrive or merely survive.</p>
<p class="txt">The debate between their admirers and critics seems to focus on the endgame. Divorce, debt and disaster are constant themes about the Sussexes’ future. Many gloat that Harry is no longer the Royal Family’s ‘spare’ but has become Meghan’s. Indeed, in an interview for <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em>’s Christmas 2025 issue, Meghan appeared to revel in Harry’s puppy love for her.</p>
<p class="txt">Ever since they moved to California in 2020, many have speculated that the Sussexes’ marriage was doomed. Harry, it was said, would fall out of love with the sea and sunshine and pine for his British roots – his family and the friends he left behind. Others predicted that Meghan would become bored with the Prince and even entice a Silicon Valley billionaire to provide the wealth and status she craves. Current evidence suggests that the doom-mongers are wrong – so far. But every week the Sussexes’ antics provoke speculation.</p>
<p class="txt">Their narrative is propelled by their incessant search for publicity. Hardly a day passes without Meghan posting photos, videos and <span id="page_2"/>comments on social media. To establish herself as a glamorous icon, Meghan ceaselessly appears at venues across America to declare her opinions about managing motherhood, building a business and coping with fame. At key moments she gives an interview to a supposedly trusted writer. Often light on substance saying little new; nevertheless, every word is examined by Sussexologists to glean revelations and new insights. By strictly controlling her narrative, she has created mystery about an exceptional phenomenon. Namely, the journey of a little-known B-list actress, who, after marriage to a prince, turned her global stardom into a lucrative revolt against the world’s oldest monarchy.</p>
<p class="txt">Interspersed between Meghan’s carefully orchestrated appearances, Harry has increasingly struggled to protect his princely status. With nothing overtly original to say, he has steadfastly refused to acknowledge the harm caused by <em>Spare</em>, his bestselling autobiography, and his subversive TV interviews. Trading on his birthright, he is heralded when promoting a charity but criticised when he uses his name to earn an extremely handsome fee.</p>
<p class="txt">Five years ago, <em>Revenge</em>, my book about the Sussexes’ war against the Windsors, exposed the truth about Meghan’s past. It revealed how she had ditched her family, friends and others to become famous. Simultaneously, the book traced her manipulation of past events to rewrite her history. The climax of her ‘truth’ was her interview with Oprah Winfrey in 2021. Since then, she has appeared to separate herself from Harry except when a joint appearance would enrich her publicity. Meghan’s self-promotion as Her Royal Highness, the Duchess of Sussex, has become more sophisticated. Entrenched in California, her bid for commercial success relies on her ‘truth’, which others would say bears little resemblance to objective facts. However, no humiliation or criticism has crippled her breathtaking ambition.</p>
<p class="txt">At the same time, Harry’s troubles have mounted. Isolated from Britain, his charitable activities have become threadbare and his <span id="page_3"/>desperation noticeable to many. Permanently alienated from William and Kate, Harry was reportedly stunned by his brother’s ferocious reaction to the man now known as Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor’s relationship with the convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein. Leaning on his ailing father, William ensured that the King stripped his own brother of all his titles, honours and stately home. The unpredicted and unimagined humiliation of Andrew shocked Harry. Rightly, Harry fears that the future King William could remove all the Sussexes’ titles and effectively banish him from Britain. Whether Meghan understands the potential consequences of any deliberate aggravation of the Prince and Princess of Wales remains to be seen.</p>
<p class="txt">With the Royal Family weakened by scandal and sickness, the Sussexes and the British monarchy are at a crossroads. The dramatic events of the past five years and new disclosures about details of their lives before ‘Megxit’ justify a new book with a fresh and penetrative look at Meghan, Harry and the Royal Family. In many ways, 2026 will be a make-or-break year for them all.</p>
<p class="txt">The book opens during the momentous week of Queen Elizabeth II’s death in September 2022.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>