<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 1</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct1" role="heading"><span id="page_4"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct1">CHAPTER 1</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Manchester, 5th September 2022</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">In the countdown to the big moment, Ella Robertson read Meghan Markle’s proposed speech on the Autocue. ‘She’s fucked it,’ groaned Robertson. Instead of speaking as agreed about the charity One Young World, Meghan’s speech was focused on herself. Nearly fifty times in just ten minutes, she intended to say ‘I’.</p>
<p class="txt">On 5th September 2022, Meghan was due to address 2,300 people for One Young World’s conference in Manchester. Founded in 2010 in London, the organisation brought young leaders together every year in a different country to discuss global challenges.</p>
<p class="txt">The co-founder, Kate Robertson, and her daughter Ella had been nervous about inviting Meghan to Manchester. ‘Megxit’ was still a hotly emotional topic – Harry and Meghan had only left the UK in March 2020 – and the Sussexes’ anticipated return to Britain from California had excited intense speculation. Buckingham Palace had disclosed that the Queen would not meet her grandson.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-1" id="en0-1" role="doc-noteref">1</a></sup> Similarly, Princes Charles and William were indisposed to the couple. Fearful of the Sussexes’ disloyalty, especially with the imminent broadcast of their Netflix series <span id="page_5"/>and the publication of Harry’s autobiography, the Royal Family no longer trusted Harry or his wife.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite the snubs, the Sussexes had conjured a short itinerary of three events headlined ‘Compassion in Action’. First, they would appear in Manchester, then dash to Düsseldorf to promote the 2023 Invictus Games before returning to London for Harry to host the WellChild awards. Given recent explosive events, the Sussexes’ appearances were guaranteed publicity.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite the widespread anger among older Britons towards Harry and Meghan, many young people hailed the couple as heroes. Among those younger factions their popularity was undeniably magnetic. Meghan, they believed, was the victim of the racist royals, and that undoubtedly Harry had been abused by his father and brother. A new generation of aspiring young leaders, the Robertsons had decided, would welcome Meghan in Manchester. ‘They were the most attention-grabbing couple in the world,’ judged Ella. ‘No one else could get so much attention for an event.’</p>
<p class="txt">Yet the Robertsons had good reason to be fearful.</p>
<p class="txt">During endless conversations and emails with the Sussexes’ staff in California, Ella Robertson had sought guarantees that there would be no ‘explosions’ to distract from the conference. Ever since Meghan’s interview with Oprah Winfrey in 2021, everything she said had become sensational. Although sensitive to criticism, Meghan was proud of the Oprah interview, not least because the reward for denouncing the Royal Family was renewed global stardom. Robertson sought reassurances from James Holt, the Sussexes’ chief of staff. ‘Nothing’s coming up that I’m aware of,’ he affirmed. Holt evidently forgot to mention that Meghan would be hosting a series of podcasts and the imminent publication of an interview with <em>The Cut</em>, a New York magazine. Holt’s priority was to fuel Meghan’s celebrity, especially as the champion of humanitarian causes.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_6"/>In July 2022, Holt confirmed Meghan’s appearance in Manchester. One Young World agreed to pay for the return flights from Los Angeles for the Sussexes’ entourage – a total of eleven people. Five would travel first-class, two in business and four in economy.</p>
<p class="txt">Appropriately, Meghan had agreed that her short speech in Manchester would focus on empowering women and gender equality. Pointedly, she was asked not to speak about herself and not to wear expensive clothes. From past experience, the Robertsons had reasons to be nervous.</p>
<p class="txt">During her rise to stardom, Meghan had previously worked with One Young World and it clearly helped to boost her celebrity. Although the actress was largely unknown in 2014, Kate Robertson had been persuaded by the photographer Misan Harriman to give Meghan a slot at the Dublin conference. ‘Choose her. She’ll be a star,’ urged Harriman. Not only because she was acting in <em>Suits</em>, the American cable TV series, explained Harriman, but because ‘she’s a hustler and a climber. She’s looking for ins and ups.’</p>
<p class="txt">Two years later, in September 2016, Meghan was booked to appear at the One Young World conference in Ottawa. By then, she had been secretly dating Harry for three months. Her ambition, she had confessed to her publicist Gina Nelthorpe-Cowne, was to marry the Prince. ‘With Harry by my side,’ she had whispered at a London restaurant, ‘we can change the world.’</p>
<p class="txt">During those action-packed two days in Ottawa, the Robertsons and Nelthorpe-Cowne noticed how Meghan had altered from just two years previously. Forthrightly, she demanded to feature in the official photographs with the Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Bob Geldof. She also demanded equivalence with the actress Emma Watson. She had inveigled her way into <em>Vanity Fair</em>’s photograph featuring ‘exceptional young leaders’ and had scrutinised whether her name featured as a ‘Very Very Important Person’ (VVIP) on the roster. Disgruntled by her failure to secure <span id="page_7"/>top billing, she abruptly announced that she was needed on the <em>Suits</em> set in Toronto and departed without making her listed speech to the conference. Nelthorpe-Cowne was left tearful. With a move that could seem heartless towards those unable to further her ambitions, it was becoming apparent that Meghan would allow no one to forget that she was to become one of the world’s most famous women.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite that disruption, Ella Robertson could not resist again inviting Meghan to address 2,000 young leaders at the One Young World conference in London’s Royal Albert Hall on 22nd October 2019. Now the newly married Duchess was certain to be a star attraction. Un-surprisingly, the negotiations were complicated. Jason Knauf, Meghan’s young American-born Palace press secretary, was emphatic: ‘Meghan demands that you big up her humanitarian credentials.’ Calls to confirm Meghan’s presence were answered ‘yes’ by Kensington Palace and then followed up by uncertainty.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It’s a vipers’ nest in her office,’ complained Ella Robertson. Every request to confirm Meghan’s participation produced conflicting replies from her assistants – positive from Amy Pickerill; frosty from Beth Herlihy; encouraging from Sara Latham, a Kensington Palace media official who replied, ‘We want to do the project and we want to do it now’; and finally hectic from Samantha Cohen, the Sussexes’ most senior advisor. ‘It became a nightmare to get her to the event,’ recalled Robertson.</p>
<p class="txt">The chaos had spread to the London headquarters of the Invictus Games, Harry’s successful sports competition for wounded military veterans. ‘It’s a shit show over there,’ chief executive Don Reid reported about Kensington Palace. ‘Harry has no idea what’s happening.’ The nub was a breakdown of relations between the Sussexes and their staff – and everyone knew the reason.</p>
<p class="txt">Finally, Meghan agreed to appear at the Royal Albert Hall. In return, One Young World funded a £200,000 scholarship for Meghan to mention in her speech.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_8"/>The agreement soon unravelled. Prince Charles ordered that Meghan cancel her appearance. Her date clashed with his official visit to Japan and he feared her appearance would overshadow his trip.The agreed compromise was a round-table discussion about gender equality chaired by Meghan that would be filmed by the BBC in Windsor.</p>
<p class="txt">On meeting Meghan in Windsor Castle for the discussion about her favourite topic – feminism – Ella Robertson was surprised. Five months after Archie’s birth, ‘She was traumatised, shell-shocked and brittle.’ Nevertheless, Meghan behaved professionally. Well prepared, she introduced her ‘surprise guest’ to the panel – Harry. He had just finalised the membership of Britain’s team to compete at the following year’s Invictus Games in the Hague. With Harry in a supporting role, the BBC’s film featured the Sussexes as genuine stars.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-2" id="en0-2" role="doc-noteref">2</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By then, gossip about the confusion and arguments among the Sussexes and Cambridges – the so-called ‘Fab Four’ – in Kensington Palace and beyond had seeped into the media. By now dubbed ‘Duchess Difficult’, Meghan was wilting under the pressure.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s plight attracted sympathy in Westminster. Seventy-two female MPs expressed their ‘solidarity’ with her against the media and, implicitly, the Palace. Simultaneously, American politicians including Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama hailed Meghan as a hero. With targeted briefings, Meghan was successfully building a narrative about her suffering. Like many young people, her audience at the Royal Albert Hall hailed Meghan as ‘a global champion for the rights of women and girls, activist and philanthropist’.</p>
<p class="txt">Just two weeks later, the Sussexes departed for a remote waterfront mansion on Vancouver Island, the first stage of their dash to California. Harry would call that journey ‘running like hell’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-3" id="en0-3" role="doc-noteref">3</a></sup> Palace press officer Sara Latham voiced an alternative take about ‘Megxit’: ‘Ultimately, we’ve all been had.’</p>
<p class="txt">Since their exit from Britain in 2019, Meghan had devoted money <span id="page_9"/>and effort to craft a global image as a feminist, philanthropist, activist and American ‘mom’. The Robertsons were baffled: ‘It’s just really hard to see that she’s ever really been a leader of anything other than her own image creation.’ Nevertheless, in 2022 they could not resist inviting the global star to Manchester.</p>
<p class="txt">In Meghan’s new career, media advisors were supreme. At that moment, no one was more important in Los Angeles than Meghan’s in-house media managers: Beth Herlihy, Miranda Barbot and Ashley Hansen. Barbot had worked on Barack Obama’s 2012 election team and Hansen came from Universal Pictures. The most important outsider was Keleigh Thomas Morgan of Sunshine Sachs, a Los Angeles PR agency.</p>
<p class="txt">As the Sussexes’ global press secretary, Hansen described herself as ‘the brain behind Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s PR and communications strategy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-4" id="en0-4" role="doc-noteref">4</a></sup> She had overseen their Netflix docu-series <em>Harry &amp; Meghan</em> and she was preparing for the launches of Prince Harry’s memoir <em>Spare</em> and Meghan’s <em>Archetypes</em> podcasts. Like Meghan, Hansen was a Californian, passionate about food, exercise and meditation.</p>
<p class="txt">Daily, Hansen and her team of four monitored every media outlet for coverage of their employer. ‘We know, especially with tabloids, there’s an agenda there,’ said Hansen. ‘And it’s a negative one for the most part.’ In anticipation of their arrival in Manchester, Herlihy admitted, ‘All bets are off with the British media. And the trolls are out in force.’ Snapping orders, Hansen was the salty voice of the Sussexes’ war machine.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-5" id="en0-5" role="doc-noteref">5</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Long before she arrived in Britain for the One Young World event in 2022, there was always a risk that the appearance would be used for Meghan’s own benefit rather than that of the charity. Building on her successful September issue for <em>Vogue</em> in 2019, Meghan asked the magazine’s editor Edward Enninful to feature her on <em>Vogue</em>’s front cover ahead of the Manchester event. Over the following weeks, their discussions soured. Meghan’s demands for control over the content reportedly infuriated Enninful. Plus, he had already chosen a cover <span id="page_10"/>and her demands for an online version were exhausting. Her proposal was dumped. In the fall-out, Meghan would not be invited in 2024 by Enninful to feature in the photograph for his last edition featuring <em>Vogue</em>’s forty ‘legendary’ women.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-6" id="en0-6" role="doc-noteref">6</a></sup> Meghan risked the same reaction from the Robertsons as she headed to Manchester.</p>
<p class="txt">Hansen perfectly understood the challenge. Even the timing of Meghan’s appearance was a high-wire act. At the same time as she was due to walk on to the stage, the Conservative Party would announce that Liz Truss had been elected as the new Tory leader and the next prime minister. Remarkably, Hansen had negotiated that Sky TV would cut from Westminster to capture Meghan’s live appearance.</p>
<p class="txt">Hansen recognised that Meghan was sensitive to slights. To limit any embarrassment in Manchester, there was to be tight scrutiny of ticketing to exclude any protesters, a ban on spectators standing outside the venue, and all journalists were to be excluded from the hall. Hansen demanded that only Omid Scobie, a trusted author, and the photographer Misan Harriman were to be given access to the event. Harriman’s photos would be published only in <em>Town &amp; Country</em> magazine, ordered Hansen.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-7" id="en0-7" role="doc-noteref">7</a></sup> Not the mainstream media. Harriman was surprised to be the sole photographer. Despite producing Meghan’s <em>Vogue</em> cover and photos of baby Archie, he’d had no contact from her ever since. In Meghan’s world, it seemed tradesmen were ignored until required.</p>
<p class="txt">Any protest that the media restrictions would damage Meghan’s request to be globally positioned as a philanthropist was dismissed by Keleigh Thomas Morgan. ‘KTM’s as useless as a chocolate teapot,’ scoffed an organiser. ‘Completely out of her depth.’ Yet Meghan knew no better. Risks were unacceptable to the Duchess.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I’ve been abandoned,’ complained Harry days before the event. Stressed about their security, Harry had been told that the Home Office refused to provide armed protection in Manchester and London. But with Meghan’s insistence that her appearance was essential to sustain <span id="page_11"/>her brand, he decided to ‘risk assassination’. At least Manchester police provided extra cover to avoid a major incident. And a whole rail carriage was reserved for the journey from London to Manchester. Although the public would be barred from access to the ‘royal carriage’, Harry later complained about the dangers he faced ‘because of his proximity to the public’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-8" id="en0-8" role="doc-noteref">8</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Before leaving Frogmore Cottage, still their Windsor home, Charlotte Tilbury herself had spent three hours on Meghan’s make-up. The final touch-up was completed at the Kimpton Clocktower Hotel in Manchester. After lunch and a rest, the couple were driven to The Bridgewater Hall. Over 2,300 eager young people were waiting. Herlihy refused the suggestion that they enter through the kitchen. They would brave the crowd. As they emerged on to the empty pavement, Harry heard ‘God Save the Queen’ booming from a circling van and a few distant boos. ‘They’re all paid by the tabloids to show up,’ Harry later pronounced.</p>
<p class="txt">Anxious about her speech, Meghan stood waiting off-stage while Harry, ever the professional, humoured his hosts with small talk. Hovering alongside was her publicist Ashley Hansen. Dressed in over-the-top Californian lifestyle clothes – a large trench coat, a big hat and sunglasses – Hansen symbolised Meghan’s similar discomfort of appearing in front of a British audience.</p>
<p class="txt">Escorted amid a standing ovation on to the stage, Meghan, wearing a red dress, adopted her rictus Hollywood smile, while Harry clapped with what was now arguably his perma-scowl. Meghan had abandoned the billed theme: ‘Ethical leadership – how can we instil transparency, honesty and integrity as core values for leaders?’ To Ella Robertson’s anger, her speech praised One Young World, who ‘saw in me what I wanted to see fully in myself’. And over the next ten minutes, she spoke exclusively about herself and her rise to fame.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-9" id="en0-9" role="doc-noteref">9</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘She’s tone-deaf to others,’ Robertson realised. ‘She just can’t do what <span id="page_12"/>we wanted. She’s toxic.’ Every organisation inviting the Sussexes, she concluded, would need to factor in disappointment and an inevitable storm. At the end of Meghan’s speech, the audience clapped politely.</p>
<p class="txt">Anxious about missing the train back to London, the Sussexes rushed from the building oblivious to the organisers’ indignation and the impression it gave that the couple felt that the British people were irrelevant and easy to ignore. In Meghan’s mind, the British and their country were irrelevant. Dissatisfied Brits were apparently easy to ignore, not least the Royal Family. She had accumulated all the ingredients for her career. She would appear to enjoy irritating her critics and enemies. Whatever had happened in the preceding months, Meghan clearly saw herself as the victor.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">The next few days were hectic for the couple. Encouraged by Harry to play on the Royal Family’s popularity in Germany, the Invictus executives had arranged for a flight the next day on a Luftwaffe jet from RAF Northolt, a small airport in west London, to get the couple to their event in Düsseldorf. After landing, they were driven in a high-speed police convoy to the city’s town hall, where they were greeted at the end of a red carpet as heads of state by Mayor Stephan Keller. Unlike in Manchester, Harry was happy to be interviewed. ‘Great,’ he told the Invictus executives, clearly pleased to be feted.</p>
<p class="txt">On his return to London for the WellChild awards ceremony in the Lancaster Gate Hotel, Harry flourished as the popular prince – genuinely friendly towards the children and their parents and hailed as thoroughly good. At the end of the day, Harry returned to Frogmore anticipating his imminent return to Los Angeles. Deeply distrusted by the royal household, Harry had been purposely kept ignorant of events occurring in Scotland.</p>
<p class="txt">That night, 7th September 2022, Edward Young, the Queen’s private <span id="page_13"/>secretary, was near his 96-year-old sovereign at Balmoral. The Queen’s life, he knew, was ebbing away. Bone marrow cancer had taken its toll. Princess Anne was by her mother’s bedside. Prince Charles was hosting a dinner 150 miles away by road, at Dumfries House in Ayrshire. Operation London Bridge, the plans for a state funeral, Charles’s accession and much more after the monarch’s death, was under way. The following morning, Harry and Meghan would discover the depth of the Royal Family’s distrust towards them.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>