<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 2</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct2" role="heading"><span id="page_14"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct2">CHAPTER 2</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Global Celebrity</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Ever since Harry and Meghan met, on her initiative, on a blind date arranged in July 2016 while she was working at London’s Wimbledon tennis championships, Meghan had given thanks for her amazing luck. At the time, she was on the verge of losing her role in the cable TV series <em>Suits</em> and her Canadian boyfriend, Cory Vitiello, too. Landing Harry had transformed the life of a single, potentially unemployed 34-year-old actress who had just confessed to her publicist that she planned to freeze her eggs.</p>
<p class="txt">Scrambling through Google and newspaper profiles, she discovered how Harry was a confused character crying out for love and punished for his vulnerability. After their first meeting in London’s Soho House, she had called Harry to arrange a second meeting and then snapped up his invitation to stay with him at a safari camp in Botswana.</p>
<p class="txt">Over many days in the African bush, Meghan listened to his list of woes, clearly satisfying Harry’s quest for sympathy. She was so unlike his last long-term girlfriend, Cressida Bonas, the aspiring British actress who had tired of Harry’s conviction that spies were watching him through every window – even when they visited friends for dinner – and how he was a target to be shot. Bonas was exhausted from standing next to a <span id="page_15"/>man who seemed to be on the edge of a nervous breakdown. One of the many reasons for Harry’s love of Meghan was her patience.</p>
<p class="txt">Unlike Bonas, who ended the relationship with Harry in 2014, Meghan appeared to be sympathetic to the torrent of his paranoid fears, much of it repeats of what he had told his therapist. ‘Generational trauma’ was the victims’ catchphrase to lament how their emotional needs were not satisfied. Meghan encouraged Harry’s certainty that anything he passionately believed must be true. Objective facts – namely, the real truth – were disposable if inconvenient. Within weeks, their mutual commitment was sealed. Harry was besotted by his new soulmate – a surrogate mother, homemaker, confessor, <em>consigliera</em> and safety net. Within months, cynical Palace officials were whispering about Meghan having ‘found a meal ticket’. Their suspicions outraged Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">Unreservedly, Harry identified with Meghan’s discomfort. ‘The hierarchy of my family,’ he said, was to blame. For thirty years, he complained, the institution had controlled and imprisoned him. Throughout his life, no one wanted to understand his frustration and his sense of inferiority. Few had listened to his need for an identity, any identity other than being the unloved ‘spare’. Beyond that personal torment, Harry was evidently too inarticulate and too adrift to be able to explain to Meghan the royal hierarchy. He felt himself pushed by his family to the side of the stage.</p>
<p class="txt">Aware of Harry’s complaints, the Palace had devoted enormous efforts during the months before their glittering wedding on 19th May 2018 – a glorious sunny day – to familiarise Meghan with the reality of life as a royal. Although Meghan would tell Oprah Winfrey in 2021 that Palace officials had never explained what she could expect, senior courtiers had obeyed the Queen’s orders to coach Meghan for her role in a constitutional monarchy.</p>
<p class="txt">Among the formalities designed to teach Meghan about her new life was the service to become a member of the Church of England. <span id="page_16"/>Unaware of the teachings of the Bible, she was helped by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, to understand the religious procedures. To underline its importance, the whole Royal Family led by the Queen and Prince Philip gathered in St James’s Chapel Royal to witness the thirty-minute ritual of Meghan’s baptism and confirmation. At the end, few eyewitnesses believed that Meghan had taken her vows seriously.</p>
<p class="txt">To ensure that the 37-year-old American was aware of the complications of marrying into the Royal Family, Edward Lane Fox, Harry’s private secretary, presented a specially prepared thirty-point dossier to Meghan covering every aspect of royal life. It explained how, as patrons of hundreds of organisations, from lifeboats to the Royal Opera House and many community charities, the Royal Family embodied the heart of British society, applauding tens of thousands of generous volunteers. The politically powerless family represented the nation and its shared values, the glue that held Britain’s disparate society together. Some would conclude that Meghan did not read the dossier.</p>
<p class="txt">A parallel attempt was made by Samantha Cohen, appointed by the Queen to explain royal life and the monarch’s neutrality. The Queen’s genius was to disguise her beliefs by never revealing an opinion, especially about controversial causes. Dedicated to serving Britons and the Commonwealth, her primary duty was to cultivate goodwill, dissolve tension, and defend Christianity and the culture of her peoples. Palace officials suspected that all those conversations passed Meghan by. Harry would later write, ‘Meghan wasn’t given one minute of training.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-10" id="en0-10" role="doc-noteref">10</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Already fearing disaster, a senior member of the Establishment was asked to explain personally to Meghan what to expect as Harry’s wife. Every month, he met Meghan in Kensington Palace for ninety minutes. Occasionally, Harry was present. Meghan, he discovered, dominated their relationship. Assuming the minor role, Harry appeared to be proudly besotted by his fiancée.</p>
<p class="txt">‘You’re not just marrying Harry Windsor,’ said the official, ‘you’re <span id="page_17"/>marrying the British constitution.’ Meghan smiled. Her future life in the Royal Family, she was told, would be inside a bubble. Beyond the wealth and traditions, there would be fences restricting her life. And a lot of standing up and curtsying. And always someone watching. Meghan smiled again. Conscious of her looks, she gazed into the distance, unwilling to accept the warning about the limitations that would be imposed on her. There’ll be a lot you can’t do, she was told. Again, Meghan’s eyes glazed over. She was unwilling to understand that the institution would take over her life and the boundaries were strict.</p>
<p class="txt">After a few weeks, the senior official mentioned the Abdication – the decision in December 1936 by Edward VIII to renounce the throne in order to marry the American divorcee Wallis Simpson. After leaving Britain, Meghan was told, the Windsors had ended up in a cul-de-sac. She clearly sympathised with the Duchess of Windsor. But in her mind, she would dictate her own terms. Sycophantic submission was certainly not contemplated by the Californian.</p>
<p class="txt">The senior official grasped that Meghan saw herself at the centre of every situation. With a sense of her own important role, she anticipated remaining in total control of her own future. Any talk about hierarchy passed over her head. Lurking beneath the surface, he realised, was her refusal to be bound by Britain’s traditions. She would decide her actions for herself and if the Palace imposed constraints, then she would have the rules changed. If there were no changes, she would go. The official was startled. The marriage would be bumpy, he told an aide. If it lasted. He knew that no Palace official or member of the Royal Family would be able to control Meghan if she refused to conform. Everyone in Buckingham Palace would be powerless.</p>
<p class="txt">Another official lamented that the Californian refused to grasp that, ‘the Royal Family is the nation’s family and a national obsession. The royals may appear to be ordinary people but to maintain the monarchy, they relied on the public’s willingness to treat them like gods.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-11" id="en0-11" role="doc-noteref">11</a></sup> Meghan, <span id="page_18"/>the advisor belatedly realised, ‘thought she should also be treated as a god’. It was clear that Meghan was ignoring all the advice. Meghan, one muttered, saw the Prince as her prize.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s unpredictability dawned on Palace officials when ‘family’ was mentioned. Meghan admitted that she brought baggage to the marriage. The model of a stable marriage had not existed in her own life. Her childhood, she said, had been difficult. Her relations with her family, she explained, were bad. Particularly with her father, Thomas Markle. Those speaking with her were surprised by her sense of isolation. But worse, she showed no interest in fostering better relations with Harry’s family. She refused to engage with those speaking about compromise and obedience. Fears about her intentions were confirmed after she disclosed, weeks before the ceremony, that ‘I hope my father won’t be coming to the wedding.’ The admission shocked her audience.</p>
<p class="txt">In the months before the wedding, officials noticed that Meghan had sidelined her father from the arrangements. He was not sent an invitation, nor did Meghan ask a British embassy official to offer him help, as she had in the case of her mother. More telling, Harry had not tried to meet Thomas Markle in Los Angeles. As the international media aggressively doorstepped the retired studio lighting technician’s home in Mexico, Meghan appeared to abandon him. Palace officials assumed Meghan had good reason to distance herself from Thomas Markle, especially after he famously lied about staging photographs of his preparations for the wedding. That was just one of many surprises causing alarm.</p>
<p class="txt">By then, those Palace officials closely involved had concluded that both Meghan and the Royal Family had ‘unrealistic expectations’ about her life after the marriage ceremony. For Meghan’s part, she clearly refused to accept any restrictions. On the other side, the Royal Family were deluding themselves. From the Queen down, they assumed she would somehow slot into her place. None of the senior royals understood <span id="page_19"/>that Meghan was questioning a thousand years of history. No official can recall that among the senior royals one voice was heard warning, ‘This must work. We cannot have another Diana.’ Six years later, Meghan explained her stance: ‘I was just so done with the prove-it game.’ She refused to be judged. She admitted challenging the Royal Family: ‘If you can’t see it, I don’t have to prove it to you.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-12" id="en0-12" role="doc-noteref">12</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As Meghan set out her own expectations, a senior member of the Establishment noted Meghan’s rejection of royalty’s mystique. Uninterested in the monarchy’s place in Britain, she ignored the special aura that elevated the Royal Family. In her mind, the royals were more like super-celebrities.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan spoke about The Firm, believing that the Queen ran the monarchy like the president of Universal Studios. She didn’t want to understand the labyrinthine network of personal relationships, interlinked organisations, livery companies and secret committees that comprised the Establishment. In her self-focused manner, she knew nothing about the ghosts of the past. Nor could she imagine the Queen’s private secretaries receiving calls from all over the world asking, ‘What does the Queen think?’ And, ‘What will she do?’</p>
<p class="txt">The Queen’s suspicions about Meghan surfaced before their wedding. To the monarch’s displeasure, Meghan insisted on making many of the decisions about the arrangements without consulting anyone. Not only did Meghan refuse to discuss with the Queen her wedding dress – the monarch complained it was ‘too white’ for a divorcee – but Meghan had approached the Archbishop of Canterbury to conduct the wedding without first consulting the Dean of Windsor.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-13" id="en0-13" role="doc-noteref">13</a></sup> An argument erupted after the Queen reprimanded Harry about his fiancée’s demanding behaviour. Harry retorted that Meghan was being treated badly. In his fury, Harry shared Meghan’s conviction that he too was being disrespected. The sovereign’s warnings were ignored. Harry was baffled. Meghan was acting no differently than Harry himself in his daily life. <span id="page_20"/>To him, she had a right to command. He aligned himself with Meghan and away from his military virtue of loyalty. Meghan, as senior Palace officials had realised, was loyal to no one. Even to the Queen.</p>
<p class="txt">Having made little effort to understand the reasons for global admiration of the Queen, Meghan, as the guest editor of <em>Vogue</em> in September 2019, would exclude the monarch from her list of fifteen ‘Game Changers’. The Queen’s senior advisors were not surprised. They acknowledged by then that the Queen’s efforts to welcome Meghan into the family had been rebuffed even before her wedding, notably by Meghan’s preference to sidestep protocols and traditions.</p>
<p class="txt">The report of Meghan’s 45-minute visit to the headquarters of the College of Arms located since 1555 in London’s Queen Victoria Street confirmed the Establishment’s worst fears. On the Queen’s orders, Meghan, the new Duchess of Sussex, was to have her own coat of arms. The design would be supervised by Thomas Woodcock, the Garter Principal King of Arms. Meghan’s arrival in Woodcock’s office was unexceptional. Every newly created peer visited to discuss his or her title and every aspect of Britain’s heraldry for their elevated position. The Californian had entered into an alien world of ancient British families, chivalry and their symbols. She would have been surprised to hear that Woodcook’s annual salary, set in 1618, was just £47, reduced from £100!</p>
<p class="txt">Woodcock’s task was to prevent any embarrassments but Meghan’s request was unprecedented. Convinced that she had been created a duchess in her own right, unrelated to Harry being the duke, she told Woodcock: ‘I want on the coat of arms a songbird with its tongue cut out.’ Woodcock was flummoxed. Any hint of nostalgia was quashed by her moral certitude. The Duchess eventually agreed to a nightingale, but without the image of it being forcibly silenced.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt"><span id="page_21"/>None of the 1 billion TV viewers watching Harry and his best man Prince William chatting warmly at the St George’s Chapel altar before the arrival of the bride could have imagined their fractured relationship. Similarly, there was no hint of the tension as Meghan was escorted down the aisle by Prince Charles. Few knew about the tears and tantrums as Thomas Markle was prevented from flying to London after a heart attack. Having been depicted as an ogre, some officials were not surprised that Meghan had spoken of her fear of her father ‘suddenly’ arriving in Britain. The Royal Family praised Charles’s concern for Meghan, her actions having galvanised his efforts to offer help. Many observers spotted the inspiration of her dramatic solo appearance at the Chapel entrance before walking alone into the church, namely that she was choosing to replicate Maria at her wedding to Captain von Trapp in <em>The Sound of Music.</em> Her wedding was a feast of self-celebration.</p>
<p class="txt">After a somewhat unconventional ceremony, during which the TV cameras spotted Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, stifling laughter and Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, wearing an unwaveringly stern expression, Meghan’s magnificent performance as she rode through Windsor in the open carriage with Harry was triumphant. Thanks to her Hollywood pedigree, she smiled majestically, waved gracefully and exuded genuine empathy to the crowds lining the streets. Many black Britons who identified with her had travelled especially to see the happy spectacle. By the end of the wedding day, which had cost £32 million, Meghan was confirmed as a global celebrity.</p>
<p class="txt">Those later dissecting the event with Kate were less enthusiastic. Meghan’s guest list for the ceremony and dinner included Hollywood celebrities whom she barely knew. The exclusion from the same dinner of some of Harry’s oldest friends did not go unnoticed. Meghan’s apparent dislike of rowdy Englishmen who shared Harry’s fondness for crude jokes had been detected. ‘She scoffed that on Fridays, Harry’s friends oiled their guns for the weekend,’ recalled a Palace official. That signalled, <span id="page_22"/>they speculated, her intention to return eventually to California. At the end of the wedding day, the gulf between Meghan and the Royal Family was firmly entrenched.</p>
<p class="txt">Within six months, Meghan was irritated that there was little by the way of gushing praise for the few official duties she undertook. Compared to Hollywood, everything in Kensington Palace was strait-laced and straightforward. She felt unrecognised and unrewarded. Meghan’s unwillingness to accept the Royal Family’s diffidence towards Hollywood celebrity was matched by the Royal Family’s reluctance to bestow outright approval of her. The excited fizz among officials after her arrival had waned as her bolshiness grew. And no one became more aggrieved about Meghan’s subversion of royal tradition than William and Kate.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>