<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 3</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct3" role="heading"><span id="page_23"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct3">CHAPTER 3</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Tea Party</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">‘If you don’t mind, get your finger out of my face,’ Meghan Markle snapped at William. The teatime reconciliation meeting between the brothers and their wives had spun out of control.</p>
<p class="txt">Tea had been served in the usual traditional atmosphere befitting a medieval palace. The formalities failed to camouflage the tension. Sitting in the Cambridges’ recently redecorated twenty-room Kensington Palace apartment, soon after the Sussexes returned from their honeymoon in June 2018, Harry watched the confrontation escalate. William’s dislike of Meghan had been obvious after his warning to Harry before their engagement. ‘It’s gone too quickly,’ William had said about the speed of Harry’s relationship with ‘the American actress’. William’s suspicion of Meghan was echoed by his wife.</p>
<p class="txt">Kate, Harry was convinced, saw Meghan as a threat. The antagonism had started once their engagement was announced. Kate had not appreciated a streetwise, self-confident rival. Clever and stylish, Meghan was clearly unwilling to obediently serve the British people as a member of the royal team. As Meghan would later tell the tennis champion Serena Williams, the Royal Family ‘hates’ ambition. That was associated with vulgar pushiness.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-14" id="en0-14" role="doc-noteref">14</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_24"/>Even before their engagement was announced, Kensington Palace officials had spotted Meghan’s shock about the limited money and perks available to the royals. She had expected marriage to transform her from a starlet into a star, to shine in the spotlight. Compared to the American’s imagining of palatial splendour, Harry’s allowance was less than a Hollywood B-movie actor earned. That must have been intolerable.</p>
<p class="txt">As they entered the Cambridges’ apartment, Harry had spotted Kate’s disapproval of Meghan’s torn jeans. Previously, Kate had disapproved of Meghan wearing jeans at Wimbledon. Meghan’s behaviour, Kate decided, was incomprehensible. After all, Meghan would not have gone to the Kentucky Derby in ripped denim.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry had been similarly distraught about Kate’s visible ‘disgust’ after Meghan asked to share her lip gloss. Watching Meghan scrape gloss on to her finger, Kate’s glacial freeze had destroyed any suggestion of friendship.‘I was a hugger,’ recalled Meghan. ‘I didn’t realise that that is really jarring for a lot of Brits.’ In Harry’s opinion, while Meghan ‘spread kindness’, the Cambridges responded with spite.</p>
<p class="txt">Naturally, Meghan’s undisguised disdain for the Palace’s hierarchy had aroused Kate’s distrust. Kate did not hide her own suspicions. Her restraint was seen as hostility. For her part, Meghan was contemptuous of the Cambridges’ aloofness, it being a far cry from her own personal style: Kate was boring; William had cried himself to sleep at Eton. Both were so detached from her reality.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan believed that Harry was right to feel the Cambridges were jealous of her successful career – just like the Royal Family had been envious of Diana’s. Even after two years in London, Meghan did not understand how seriously the Cambridges and all members of the Royal Family took their roles. The Royal Family was a job. Duty, hard work and self-sacrifice without a big pay cheque was alien to someone brought up in Hollywood. But Meghan had laughed off Charles’s <span id="page_25"/>suggestion that she continue working as an actress. Hollywood, she knew, had rejected her.</p>
<p class="txt">In this clash of two worlds, Meghan was irritated by the royals’ inflexible hierarchy. More than ever, she resented their ordered and impersonal lifestyle, and that birth dictated seniority. Impatient with the protocol of the royals’ relationships, she mocked that even in private encounters, relations curtsied to acknowledge another’s seniority. She could not understand that the curtsy was to preserve the royals’ aura. How ridiculous, she thought and proclaimed so publicly in years to come, that Harry greeted the Queen with a bow of his head followed by ‘Your Majesty. Granny!’</p>
<p class="txt">With that certainty, there was no mystery about Meghan’s unwillingness to curtsy to Kate. Her own talent and popularity, in that reckoning, proved her superiority. Meghan gave the impression that she regarded Kate as an untalented prude, who ought to show the respect she, Meghan, deserved. As seeming proof, Kate had recently hired Virginia Chadwyck-Healey, a former <em>Vogue</em> editor and stylist, to match Meghan with a youthful, lighter haircut and a new wardrobe.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-15" id="en0-15" role="doc-noteref">15</a></sup> Some even came to believe that Meghan saw herself as a more fitting future Queen than Kate.</p>
<p class="txt">While Meghan’s certainty of purpose had seduced Harry, her talents had alarmed his brother and Kate. Both knew Harry’s problems – he’d had a damaged youth, confused by drink, drugs and therapy after his mother’s death, and had been unable to cement a balanced relationship with a woman. Both evidently saw Meghan as a threat rather than an ally. Yet Meghan didn’t seem to understand that she could not compete with Kate, the future Queen, nor accept that her task was to support her.</p>
<p class="txt">The Cambridges believed that Meghan was not reconciled to what was deemed her destiny in London. She lamented Harry’s unlikely chances of one day being King, just as she regretted the possibility that <span id="page_26"/>she would never be the Queen. With Meghan’s encouragement, Harry started to move beyond the Palace’s control. Instead of the likes of his colourless Uncle Edward, Harry refused any longer to accept his fate as the superfluous ‘spare’.</p>
<p class="txt">So, on that fateful day, amid all those conflicting, undisguised emotions, the two couples engaged in strained small talk over tea. Then the conversation switched to the cause of their disagreements. Unable to hold back, Meghan took the initiative to list their disputes: Kate’s unhappiness about the Sussexes’ failure to give her children Easter presents, Meghan’s assertion about her superior fashion expertise and, finally, Princess Charlotte’s bridesmaid dress. The dress had become the lightning rod for their acrimony.</p>
<p class="txt">Givenchy’s Clare Waight Keller had produced what was considered a poorly fitting wedding dress for Meghan. Similarly, the dresses for the bridesmaids were baggy. So much so that just before the wedding, Kate’s three-year-old daughter Charlotte had burst into tears after trying on her dress. A Kensington Palace staffer had summoned Ajay Mirpuri, a West End tailor. ‘The whole thing,’ Mirpuri later revealed, ‘was ill-fitting and needed to be recut.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-16" id="en0-16" role="doc-noteref">16</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The text messages after Kate told Meghan about the problem reflected their antipathy. Meghan texted, ‘I told you the tailor has been standing by since 8am. Here. At KP.Can you take Charlotte to have it altered as the other mums are doing?’ Kate replied, ‘No, all the dresses need to be remade.’ When they met for Charlotte’s fitting, Kate was anxious.</p>
<p class="txt">Kate had given birth to Louis just three weeks earlier. The 36-year-old’s emotions were clearly still fragile. The additional stress caused by Meghan’s attitude during the refitting of Charlotte’s dress provoked Kate to have a tearful outburst, not only about the dress but also about the numerous complaints of Meghan’s treatment towards her staff. Even the Queen was disturbed by reports that Meghan spoke in a harsh, boss-like manner.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-17" id="en0-17" role="doc-noteref">17</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_27"/>Meghan was puzzled. The Palace’s language was alien. The familiar British undertone of asking ‘Are you really going to?’ implying disapproval was the opposite of Meghan’s literal, unequivocal style. A senior Buckingham Palace official had spotted the problem: ‘Meghan cannot understand that you can’t speak to the Royal Family in normal language. Everything is spoken in code.’</p>
<p class="txt">Arguments had erupted about Meghan’s acceptance of freebies – especially clothes and cosmetics. In Meghan’s opinion, her aides’ veto of gifts appeared disloyal. After they had also disapproved of her broadcasting controversial opinions, she became annoyed. She wanted them to be governed by her rules. Samantha Cohen, Amy Pickerill and her other Kensington Palace aides described her behaviour as unreasonable. ‘Passively aggressive’ and ‘manipulative’ were among the critical terms they used about Meghan’s behaviour. ‘It’s not my job to coddle people,’ Meghan retorted to a Palace official after being urged to be a little less strident. Those bad vibes disturbed Kate. On the day of the dress fitting, she burst into tears.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite Kate’s distress, she had sought peace by personally delivering a bunch of flowers to Meghan. That offering had not resolved the situation. Any sentimentality had vanished long ago. During the reconciliation tea party, she abruptly interrupted Kate.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan declared the cause of their problems was ‘because of your hormones’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-18" id="en0-18" role="doc-noteref">18</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘You talk about my hormones?’ glared Kate wide-eyed. ‘We’re not close enough for you to talk about my hormones.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘It’s no big deal,’ Meghan replied. ‘It’s baby brain.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘That’s rude, Meghan,’ William interrupted, jabbing his finger at her face. ‘That’s not how things are done here.’ Her Californian babble irritated William. Scorning his wife had crossed the line.</p>
<p class="txt">There had to be a lot of trust before the Cambridges listened to anyone’s advice, and even more trust before listening to criticism.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_28"/>As he watched the argument, Harry wanted revenge. Not just for the attacks on his new wife but for the torment throughout his life. The Cambridges’ negativity, he was certain, infected his whole family and through them, the media. Everyone had a hostile agenda against him and Meghan. He lived in a palace of lies and liars.</p>
<p class="txt">Kate’s particular antagonism, he decided, was deep-rooted. Cool, focused and competitive by nature, Kate in his view had spotted Meghan as a challenger. In style and modernity, Kate feared that Meghan had the edge – the top dog unwilling to compromise or sympathise. In Harry and Meghan’s opinion, Kate had spurned Meghan’s offer of friendship.</p>
<p class="txt">That conviction fed Harry’s irritation about the media’s collusion in glorifying Kate. Carefully orchestrated by Buckingham Palace’s communications team, Kate had become the beautifully dressed idol to win popular support for the monarchy. But the public, Harry fumed, failed to see the truth. Kate’s status concealed her insecurities and ambition. By later quoting the novelist Hilary Mantel, Harry appeared to sympathise with her description of Kate as trapped within an institution – the ‘plastic princess’ and ‘a gloss-varnished mannequin selected only for breeding’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-19" id="en0-19" role="doc-noteref">19</a></sup> Harry was given the words to express his disdain. Kate, he said, fitted the ‘mould’ of what was expected of a royal spouse. Despite the obvious hurt caused to William, Harry hinted his brother’s marriage was from duty not love.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-20" id="en0-20" role="doc-noteref">20</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">It never appeared that Meghan sincerely wanted a friendship with Kate. Other than with a publicist, Isabel May, and Soho House’s global membership director, Markus Anderson, she had not forged sincere relationships with any Brits.</p>
<p class="txt">All those emotions infected the peace-making tea party. Even entering the twenty-room apartment had reawakened Harry’s resentment about his inferiority to William. The Sussexes had come from Nottingham Cottage, their two-bedroom home with inadequate heating and, <span id="page_29"/>famously, ‘no ice-maker’. Condemned by Meghan as ‘soooo small’, the cramped darkness within Kensington Palace was starkly inferior to the Cambridges’ extravagantly decorated living room. It was adorned by a seventeenth-century Dutch landscape painting called <em>The Negro Page</em>, showing a young black man holding a white man’s horse.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-21" id="en0-21" role="doc-noteref">21</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s handicap was his inability to express his rivalry coherently. Memories of their intense childhood fights resurfaced, along with rankling about his smaller bedroom. Yet now he also begrudged William for failing to persuade their father to give him more money, a better home and a role in the state.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan would not have understood a senior Palace courtier’s observation: ‘Harry should have sucked the lemon,’ the sentiment that after leaving school the Prince should have accepted the bitter reality of being the ‘spare’ and solved his own predicament.</p>
<p class="txt">Back in the Cambridges’ drawing room, unconcerned by Harry’s pique, William’s formal politeness evaporated as his temper rose. He asked Meghan for an apology to Kate and then struck another blow. Meghan, he said, was ‘a difficult person’ who had made ‘enemies of half the staff’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry interrupted. Meghan had no problems with the staff, he insisted. The problem was caused by William ‘parroting the media’s’ lies about Meghan’s childhood and her divorced parents. Thomas Markle’s frequent media appearances attacking his daughter were fuelling the flames.</p>
<p class="txt">Whatever the explanation, that afternoon the couples parted on bad terms. They had crossed the Rubicon. The split between the brothers was sealed. Reconciliation would be difficult.</p>
<p class="txt">Returning to Nottingham Cottage, Meghan and Harry were distraught. Sitting in their drawing room, it would be easy to surmise that Meghan’s outlook towards her new family hardened and that, beyond Harry’s comprehension, his wife was consumed by a new determination. <span id="page_30"/>She hated people who refused to recognise her importance, and wished to destroy those standing in her way to stardom.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>