<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 4</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct4" role="heading"><span id="page_31"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct4">CHAPTER 4</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>William and Harry</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Before he met Meghan, Harry had enjoyed a happy relationship with William and Kate, albeit that he had seen less of his brother since Prince George’s birth in 2013. At first, everything appeared better after he met Meghan. ‘When Meghan arrived,’ recalled a senior Buckingham Palace official, ‘it seemed so good on so many counts. Everyone fizzed.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-22" id="en0-22" role="doc-noteref">22</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Battered by his mother’s death, Harry had fallen into Meghan’s arms as a needy casualty of a dysfunctional family. Caring for the ‘spare’ had been beyond the royal institution’s agenda. Even the Queen ignored Harry’s fate – a surprise to those who recall how her sister Margaret suffered emotionally and financially as the ‘spare’. Harry never realised how he misunderstood his grandmother. Behind her genuine warmth, she correctly assessed Harry’s weaknesses. Unlike the Queen’s careful nurturing of William as a future monarch, eyewitnesses recalled that she had been ‘patronising’ towards Harry. ‘The younger brother was psychologically oppressed,’ admitted one senior Palace official disliked by Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-23" id="en0-23" role="doc-noteref">23</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Over regular Sunday teatimes in Windsor Castle, the Etonian schoolboy William had bonded with the Queen. Familiar with the truism that Hanoverians could never get on with their elder son, the Queen had <span id="page_32"/>a greater influence on William than Charles. Down to earth, insightful, indiscreet, amusing and practical, the Queen taught her grandson that the royals must be polite to everyone. Always under observation, the royals could only trust personal relationships after a long probationary period. Forge a tight circle of reliable friends, she advised, but expect times of loneliness. At the same time, she advised him to experience the normal world to see around corners. Her tutelage was aided by her private secretary, Christopher Geidt. Regularly, Geidt – a former diplomat – ensured that William received government papers, witnessed the Queen meeting foreign ambassadors in Buckingham Palace and visited Commonwealth countries.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-24" id="en0-24" role="doc-noteref">24</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">While William was carefully steered by his grandmother to choose a suitable wife to create a winning team, Harry remained the victim of generations of poor parenting. Charles had inherited problems with fatherhood. Prince Philip had endured a torrid childhood shipped between unwelcoming relations and marked by little contact with his own father, Prince Andrew of Greece, who had disappeared in 1937. In turn, Charles was himself an absent father who shied away from confrontation with his younger son, indulgently saying ‘No’ rarely. Lurking in the background was always the suspicion that Charles was not Harry’s father. Harry recalled Charles’s quip, ‘Who knows if I’m even your real father?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-25" id="en0-25" role="doc-noteref">25</a></sup>, a suggestion believed by some Palace officials to be too close to the bone.</p>
<p class="txt">The limited bond between Charles and Harry was partly rooted in Diana’s lack of education and her differing cultural interests. Blessed with a profound intuition and a strong personality – ‘tough as nails’, some would say – Diana refused to encourage her sons to share Charles’s passion for music, architecture, civilisation, religion, the environment and much more. Even on those days spent together shooting, riding and skiing, Harry and Charles shared little in common. Every parental attempt to treat the brothers as equals was undermined by William’s <span id="page_33"/>destiny and the unreality of royal life. Diana had even described Harry as a needy thumb-sucker sitting on her lap demanding attention.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-26" id="en0-26" role="doc-noteref">26</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Commuting in chauffeured cars between Kensington Palace, Buckingham Palace, Sandringham, Balmoral and his friends’ country homes, surrounded by bodyguards and obsequious courtiers, Harry always relied on others to do his chores – his shopping, cleaning and even calling for his car. The man who never carried cash, never had a door key in his pocket and never travelled by Tube was oblivious to the real world.</p>
<p class="txt">Undoubtedly, Harry was preoccupied with his parents’ divorce, the walk at the age of twelve behind his mother’s coffin and Charles’s relationship with Camilla Parker Bowles. As a reportedly disruptive pupil at Eton, he achieved two poor A-levels – a grade D in geography and, with the secret help of his teacher, a B in art. ‘I’m bottom of the class,’ one fellow Etonian lamented to Harry. ‘It’s all right for you,’ Harry replied, ‘I’m bottom of the school.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-27" id="en0-27" role="doc-noteref">27</a></sup> Some were sympathetic to Harry’s predicament. He felt imprisoned by having to conform to court rules and public parades. Others scoffed about his extraordinary privileges, not least the dark side of life known to many except, apparently, his father.</p>
<p class="txt">Relying on his staff to supervise Harry, Charles allowed his teenage son to spend thousands of pounds on Krug and Grey Goose vodka in Boujis, Mahiki and other London nightclubs – and on drugs. Exposed by the tabloids when he was seventeen for snorting cocaine, including in ‘Club H’, a basement at Highgrove, Charles’s country house, Harry told the Palace to deny the truth.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-28" id="en0-28" role="doc-noteref">28</a></sup> Yet, the Palace had refused to lie to protect him. At his expense, he fumed, they lied about him to protect William, the sacred heir. Fearing that he was a lifelong loser, it was clear Harry would prefer not to admit one truth: he was furious not to be the heir.</p>
<p class="txt">Being the ‘spare’ had become intolerable. He was, in his words, ‘the shadow, the support, the plan B . . . the back-up, distraction, <span id="page_34"/>diversion and if necessary a “spare” part. Kidney, perhaps.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-29" id="en0-29" role="doc-noteref">29</a></sup> Convinced that William had even controlled his wedding, he could not imagine his father’s turmoil in anticipation of becoming the king. Charles did nothing to alleviate those anxieties.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry blamed his father for his misery. Charles had married Diana out of duty and he had failed to live up to his responsibility to remain loyal to his mother and his children. Instead of understanding his father’s burdens – unhappy schooldays, distant parents and bowing to pressure for his first, loveless marriage – Harry turned against his father, describing him as emotionally dead. Proof was Charles’s failure to hug his son on that fateful August morning in Balmoral when he sat on his bed to tell him that Diana was dead. And later, disregarding his two sons’ pleas, he married Camilla Parker Bowles.</p>
<p class="txt">In 2009, the journalist Mark Hollingsworth wrote in the <em>London Evening Standard</em> that Harry had an ‘uneasy relationship with his father’ because ‘Prince Charles was an absentee father.’ Lesotho and his charity work, continued Hollingsworth, had become Harry’s sanctuary ‘far away from the disapproving and detached gaze of his father’. The <em>Standard</em>’s magazine editor received a formal protest from the Palace: ‘There is absolutely no truth in any of these assertions,’ wrote the communications director, Paddy Harverson. ‘The claims made, without any evidence, are incorrect.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-30" id="en0-30" role="doc-noteref">30</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Four years later, in January 2013, Charles understood Harry’s trauma better than others. The army had been Harry’s lifebelt. Hugely popular, he had flourished in Afghanistan as an officer amid real camaraderie. Hearing about his sudden evacuation after a newspaper had revealed his presence, Charles had rushed from Highgrove to meet his son’s returning plane at snowy Brize Norton. Harry, he suspected, would struggle to establish a satisfying life as a civilian.</p>
<p class="txt">Suffering ‘post-traumatic stress injury’, Harry was ‘unravelling’. As he later admitted, ‘the first few bubbles started coming out . . . and then it <span id="page_35"/>was chaos. My emotions were sprayed all over the wall, everywhere . . . I started to go slightly off the rails, and deal with it through drinking and drugs . . . Unfortunately, like most of us, the first time you consider therapy is when you’re lying on the floor in a foetal position probably wishing you had dealt with some of this stuff previously.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-31" id="en0-31" role="doc-noteref">31</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s saviour, he had told the journalist Bryony Gordon, was William: ‘He kept saying, “This is not right, this is not normal, you need to talk to someone about stuff. It’s OK.” Bless him, he was a huge support to me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-32" id="en0-32" role="doc-noteref">32</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">With William’s encouragement, in 2016, the brothers founded Heads Together, a campaign to persuade people to feel no guilt about mental health problems. By then Harry was also certain he had been cured. ‘I am not a person with a disorder,’ he said that year.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-33" id="en0-33" role="doc-noteref">33</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In hindsight, Harry would complain that his future had been precarious. As the ‘spare’, he protested, he had ‘no money, no status, no decent home and no job’. Palace officials refused to create a separate court for Harry or negotiate an accommodation for him to fit in like his aunt, Princess Anne, or even his great-aunt Margaret. ‘Don’t bother to compete against William,’ a senior Palace official advised him.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-34" id="en0-34" role="doc-noteref">34</a></sup> Frustrated, he found that his father ignored both his complaints and the danger signals. Until he met Meghan, Harry accepted his fate. ‘He always seemed so friendly,’ recalled one Palace official, ‘even as his role declined.’</p>
<p class="txt">The official was mistaken. While Harry assumed that he shared with his brother an unbreakable lifetime bond of misery over Diana’s death, he baulked at the barriers erected after William’s marriage to Kate in 2011. After the Cambridges were given more staff, bigger cars and a bigger home, Harry felt himself ‘an outsider, a non-person within my own family’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-35" id="en0-35" role="doc-noteref">35</a></sup> Convinced that he was being ostracised by the Cambridges, trifling incidents in Kensington Palace became magnified. Arguments about a parking space and disputes about a lack of natural sunlight into <span id="page_36"/>his home fired him up. And so did Meghan. Consumed by the memory of Diana, Harry told William, ‘I feel as though she helped me find Meg.’ William was surprised. ‘Well now, Harold, I’m not sure about that. I wouldn’t say that.’</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>