<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 5</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct5" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct5"><span id="page_37"/>CHAPTER 5</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Briefings</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">During the weeks following the tea party fracas, Meghan seemingly fed Harry’s suspicions, leading Harry to challenge his family.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-36" id="en0-36" role="doc-noteref">36</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As his relationships with his family splintered, Harry seemed to be unaware how Meghan had ruthlessly dished her own family – her uncles, aunts, cousins and half-sister – and, more important, had done little to contradict the negative description of her generous father in order to justify repudiating him. Encouraging a similar break between Harry and Charles did not seem to trouble Meghan. ‘They’re racist,’ she suggested was the view to take, and publicly too.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I’m being hounded by the media,’ said Meghan. Like the media, she explained, his family distorted the facts to suit their agenda. They manipulated the media against him. ‘Just like against your mother.’ The mere mention of Diana by Meghan triggered an outpouring of Harry’s bitterness.</p>
<p class="txt">‘My mother was chased to her death when she was in a relationship with someone who wasn’t white,’ Harry recalled, ‘and look what happened.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-37" id="en0-37" role="doc-noteref">37</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry had refused for many years even to acknowledge that his mother was dead. Only that she had ‘disappeared’. Harry chose not to <span id="page_38"/>believe that the car crash in Paris in August 1997 had happened because Mohamed Fayed’s drunken chauffeur Henri Paul drove over the speed limit into a dangerous curve – or that his mother had contributed to her own death by failing to wear a seat belt. Contrary to the conclusions of two exhaustive investigations by a French judge and a former chief of New Scotland Yard, and the verdict of a four-month coroner’s inquest in London of an accident, Harry unreservedly blamed the seven paparazzi on motorbikes for having ‘chased Diana to her death’. Journalists, he cursed, were all blood hunters. ‘Shooting, shooting, shooting,’ was Harry’s description of events that night in the Paris tunnel. His mother, he believed, was ‘murdered’ by the paparazzi’s flashes blinding the car’s driver.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-38" id="en0-38" role="doc-noteref">38</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Twenty-one years later, Harry declared, ‘History is repeating itself.’ The same tabloids were now hounding Meghan: ‘They’re not going to stop until she dies.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-39" id="en0-39" role="doc-noteref">39</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry did not properly understand either his mother or grasp Diana’s own misconception of her effect on others. Deeply disillusioned that her fairy-tale marriage had been a disaster from the outset, Diana grappled with the awful fate of being a royal. Not just the hard work, but also the inevitable disloyalty of some she had trusted. Among the betrayals was that of <em>Panorama</em>’s Martin Bashir, who used forged bank statements produced for him for the BBC to persuade her of treachery within the Palace. Bashir’s lies persuaded Diana to agree to be interviewed. Once the BBC’s dishonesty was exposed, her fears intensified. But one truth did emerge during her <em>Panorama</em> interview: her passion to destroy Charles’s reputation.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry preferred to ignore that Bashir was just one of many journalists with whom Diana conspired during her charmingly manipulative conversations. After trusting Andrew Morton to write an excoriating book, unleashing the ‘War of the Waleses’, she had frequently entertained trusted tabloid journalists in Kensington Palace or met them <span id="page_39"/>in restaurants and even in their cars to incite mayhem. Her close ties to the paparazzi, especially Jason Fraser, climaxed while she holidayed in the summer of 1997 in the South of France with Dodi, the son of Harrods’ owner Mohamed Fayed, a cocaine-addicted wastrel spending his dishonest father’s money.</p>
<p class="txt">On 18th July, the <em>Mirror</em>’s editor Piers Morgan got a call from Fayed in St Tropez. With Diana barking instructions in the background, Morgan was told of the beach where the Princess could be photographed cartwheeling, wearing a leopard-print bikini. Diana had plotted to dominate the following morning’s front pages to eclipse the fiftieth birthday party Charles was hosting that evening for Camilla at Highgrove.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-40" id="en0-40" role="doc-noteref">40</a></sup> Effortlessly attracting global attention, Diana enjoyed casting herself alternately as the victim and the rebel, while at the same time using the media to attack Charles.</p>
<p class="txt">But Harry refused to believe that few people manipulated the media more successfully than his mother. Ignoring the truth, Harry would praise Netflix’s version of his mother’s relationship with the Fayeds and her death. <em>The Crown</em>, Harry said, ‘humanised them. It made them relatable.’ Rather than face reality, Harry preferred Netflix’s sympathetic fiction. Portrayed as a scapegoat and the black sheep, Harry felt sorry for himself. ‘I’m way more comfortable with <em>The Crown</em>,’ Harry confirmed, ‘than I am seeing the [newspaper] stories written about my family, my wife or myself.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-41" id="en0-41" role="doc-noteref">41</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry was forgetting that communication was critical to the monarchy’s survival. In all the royal households, the national newspapers were laid out every morning on the coffee table. The Royal Family hated the media but relied upon relationships with trusted journalists to project the monarchy’s popularity. Inevitably, there were risks. The same newspaper that one day glorified the royals would publish an embarrassing investigation on another. Harry confused the Palace’s daily media operations to secure good coverage and to bury bad news with deliberate distortion.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_40"/>At the time of Diana’s death in 1997, the Establishment was grappling with an existential problem: how to protect the thousand-year institution from her sabotage. In 2019, Palace officials realised that Meghan posed the same threat. Harry and Meghan were concocting their own scheme for destruction. In hindsight, Camilla would conclude that in the months after their wedding, Harry had been ‘radicalised by Meghan’.</p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Sun</em>’s famous royal photographer Arthur Edwards blamed Meghan too. ‘Harry was a photographer’s dream,’ he recalled. ‘He always projected warmth and kindness across the world. He always had time for a drink, especially in Africa.’ During his famous tour of Jamaica in 2012, Harry told Arthur and others, ‘I’m here to make it work for you guys.’ Soon after he had met Meghan, Edwards realised, ‘Everything had changed. He could not even look at me, let alone talk to me.’ During his visit to Ireland in July 2018, Harry ignored the photographer’s suggestion that he hit a ball with a hurling stick. ‘Usually,’ recalled Edwards, ‘he would join in with the children at schools. Girls would hug him. Great pics. After Meghan, everything became awful.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-42" id="en0-42" role="doc-noteref">42</a></sup> Something had ruptured.</p>
<p class="txt">At heart, Meghan remained commercially minded – a dedicated professional influencer. Unquestioningly, she obeyed the Palace order to close down The Tig, her profitable website endorsing food, cosmetics and lifestyle, after her relationship with Harry was formalised in 2016. Thereafter, the Crown vetoed any commercial activity for personal gain. Just two years later, she questioned why she was not paid for visiting an English town to meet the public.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-43" id="en0-43" role="doc-noteref">43</a></sup> The restrictions were infuriating. She chafed at the wasted opportunity of exploiting the Royal Family as an invaluable money-maker.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan would have learned during her life on the fringes of Hollywood that control of the image maximised celebrities’ income. Instinctively, she had live-streamed Harry proposing marriage to her in Nottingham Cottage with a simultaneous commentary to her then-<span id="page_41"/>best friend Jess Mulroney in Toronto. ‘Oh my God, Jess, Jess, Jess. It’s happening. It’s happening.’ And then, ‘He’s really doing it.’ The video recording and the accompanying narrative, she calculated, would surely one day be valuable.</p>
<p class="txt">Immediately after her wedding, Meghan resumed contact with her agents in Hollywood, and tasked them to quietly build the foundations for her return to California. ‘Leaving Britain,’ Meghan would say, ‘gave us a chance to create that home we had always wanted.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-44" id="en0-44" role="doc-noteref">44</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The eventual split surfaced four months after the wedding, in September 2018. The Queen’s private secretary, Edward Young, had ‘become angry with Harry for not playing by the rules,’ observed one senior official. ‘Harry was constantly making demands which were inappropriate for his position. He had a constant sense of feeling left out of the family’s private conversations. He wanted to be invited and to participate in their decisions. But frequently he and Meghan were excluded from major events. That was frustrating and hurtful. Both Harry and Meghan were denied access to the Queen. They decided that Young and other officials were deliberately keeping them away from her.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-45" id="en0-45" role="doc-noteref">45</a></sup> Young understood Harry was a problem, but he was not inclined to pause and produce a solution.</p>
<p class="txt">Incited by Meghan’s unhappiness, Harry became visibly angry. Young and others stood silent as Harry fumed. Meghan’s complaints became vocal. ‘Before the wedding, she was told in uncompromising terms the deal for marrying into the Royal Family,’ recalled an official. ‘She began crossing red lines.’ Young underestimated the developing crisis.</p>
<p class="txt">In response to the Sussexes’ dislike of Nottingham Cottage, they were offered Frogmore cottages on the Windsor estate. The dilapidated buildings would need complete refurbishment. Anxious to leave Kensington Palace, they ignored the complications involved and those of leaving London for an undistinguished house under the flight path to Heathrow.</p>
<p class="txt">Next, Harry declared that he could no longer share an office with <span id="page_42"/>William. Not even in the same building (Kensington Palace). Instead of finding the Sussexes an office in Windsor Castle, the Queen ordered that they should be allocated a few rooms in Buckingham Palace. But it was regarded by the Sussexes as a snub.</p>
<p class="txt">Amid that turmoil, the Palace and the Foreign Office, in consultation with the Sussexes, finalised preparations for the couple to fly to Sydney on 14th October for a sixteen-day tour of Australia and New Zealand. The last days of preparation were beset with problems. The good news was that Meghan was pregnant. The bad news was that Meghan stole the limelight by revealing her news at the wedding of Eugenie, Prince Andrew’s daughter. Inevitably, the following day the tabloids relegated the wedding and headlined Meghan’s revelation.</p>
<p class="txt">But the biggest problem was the uproar among Meghan’s staff. On the eve of the Australian trip, two staffers submitted formal complaints to Jason Knauf, communications secretary to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, about Meghan’s behaviour. Accused of being polite one moment and rude the next, or blanking a person entirely, the tearful women told Knauf they felt ‘traumatised’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-46" id="en0-46" role="doc-noteref">46</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Outraged that Meghan was under attack, Harry urged Knauf not to pursue the complaints in exchange for urging Meghan to show greater understanding. Employees, he said, could not take ‘constructive criticism’. The media, said Harry, should be told his version and the employees should be asked to sign NDAs. Critical reports of Meghan’s behaviour were reported in newspapers. The Cambridges were to blame, Harry said. They had ‘a knack for backstabbing, a talent for intrigue’ based on ‘rumours and lies’ fed to the media.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-47" id="en0-47" role="doc-noteref">47</a></sup> Harry wanted Jason Knauf to protect Meghan, especially from the criticism of ‘bullying’ her staff. But Knauf and his staff refused. Their policy was not to engage with the tabloids’ tittle-tattle and certainly not to lie. The media reports about the fact of her staff’s complaints were, after all, true. Harry’s explanation was starkly different from his family’s. Harry understood <span id="page_43"/>so much better how he had been misled. The genuine ‘truth’ was what Harry himself believed.</p>
<p class="txt">The previously loyal Knauf switched sides. He composed a memorandum to Simon Case, William’s private secretary. ‘I am very concerned,’ Knauf wrote, ‘that the duchess was able to bully two PAs out of the household in the past year.’ According to her former staff, he continued, Meghan was vindictive: ‘The duchess seems intent on always having someone in her sights.’ The treatment of one person, he wrote, ‘was totally unacceptable’ and her ‘bullying’ of another seemed to be an attempt ‘to undermine her confidence’. Eyewitnesses reported her as ‘very challenging’ and guilty of ‘unacceptable behaviour’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-48" id="en0-48" role="doc-noteref">48</a></sup> Meghan, he explained, played mind games with her staff. On one occasion, she had encouraged a staff member in a meeting to undertake a task, but at the next meeting she ignored that person and asked another to do the same work. ‘We have had report after report from people who have witnessed unacceptable behaviour,’ Knauf recounted from what had been dubbed the ‘Sussex Survivors Club’. But since Harry and Meghan were about to leave for Australia, Knauf did not send his memorandum to Case. On Harry’s instructions, his lawyers would later deny that Harry had even discussed the issue with Knauf or had interfered.</p>
<p class="txt">Large crowds welcomed the Sussexes on 15th October to Sydney. In Harry’s eyes, the Australians’ excited admiration for his wife over the next sixteen days proved that Meghan, as Harry later proclaimed in his memoir, was more than a ‘supporting act’ for the Royal Family but was ‘stealing the limelight’ and ‘doing the job better than the person who is born to do this’. Namely, his own family. Harry was convinced that Meghan was a global superstar. Though any pleasure looked to be undermined by the undiluted resentment he had brought to Australia from Britain.</p>
<p class="txt">Reading through media reports every night, Harry and Meghan were convinced that Buckingham Palace’s silence about their success was born <span id="page_44"/>of jealousy. Harry blamed the media for ‘distorting the truth and trying to manipulate the power of positive thinking’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-49" id="en0-49" role="doc-noteref">49</a></sup> Harry was by now on his path to being determined to destroy the tabloids, the purveyors of bad news and worse.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-50" id="en0-50" role="doc-noteref">50</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">For her part, Meghan never understood that when she was greeted by thousands of enthusiastic crowds it was not just because of her celebrity but to hail the Royal Family and its embodiment of Britain’s best traditions, culture and values. The Sussexes’ frustration was magnified by the ceaseless cascade of vitriol spouted by anonymous trolls on the web.</p>
<p class="txt">The arrival of David Beckham in Sydney stirred up more trouble. The football star had been invited by Harry to sit alongside him at the Sydney Invictus Games. Beckham had especially flown to Australia with his family to oblige the Prince. But after arriving at the stadium, he was snubbed. In her anger, Meghan forbade Harry to meet him.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-51" id="en0-51" role="doc-noteref">51</a></sup> So Harry had ordered that under no circumstances would he meet Beckham or be photographed with him. After waiting, forlornly, Beckham returned to his rented house on North Shore.</p>
<p class="txt">Behind the scenes, Meghan’s conduct had become increasingly intolerable for her staff. Both Meghan and Harry were accused of screaming at and bullying their employees. She had thrown a cup of tea into the air in the High Commissioner’s residence.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-52" id="en0-52" role="doc-noteref">52</a></sup> Her staff’s renewed complaints from Australia to Knauf triggered his decision to forward his summary to Simon Case on 26th October: ‘I am very concerned [about] some very serious problems.’ The continuing Australian tour, wrote Knauf, was ‘very challenging’ and ‘made worse by the behaviour of the duchess’. The head of human resources at Clarence House, Samantha Carruthers, agreed ‘that the situation was very serious’. A few weeks later, a member of Meghan’s staff, Melissa Toubati, accused Meghan of being ‘dictatorial’ and resigned after only six months’ employment. Hearing about the revolt, Meghan would later conclude, ‘Most people need to <span id="page_45"/>find someone to blame.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-53" id="en0-53" role="doc-noteref">53</a></sup> That excuse would bear little credibility after the Queen drove across the Windsor estate to Frogmore to reprimand Meghan for insulting a sub-gardener.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-54" id="en0-54" role="doc-noteref">54</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ welcome on returning to London was cool. Buckingham Palace’s officials failed to congratulate them and neither the Queen nor Charles mentioned their success. Reports about the turmoil on the Australian tour were appearing in newspapers and on YouTube channels. William was furious. Among the royals, there was a code to show genuine gratitude towards their staff. Not only for their loyalty but also for enduring long hours despite low salaries. Customary good manners, William believed, had been breached by Harry for siding with his wife.</p>
<p class="txt">William arranged to meet Harry at Nottingham Cottage. In Harry’s version, William was a tinderbox when he stood in the kitchen berating his brother and Meghan for insulting their staff.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-55" id="en0-55" role="doc-noteref">55</a></sup> Some would say that behind an inscrutable veil, William’s temper revealed his true character. His elder brother, Harry would say, had perfected a level of complexity of double betrayal.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry denied the accusations. William, he said, shouldn’t believe newspaper headlines about ‘Duchess Difficult’. A violent argument broke out between the brothers. In Harry’s account, William unexpectedly pushed his brother. Harry fell to the floor, broke a dog bowl and discovered that his neck chain had been ripped. Dazed, he demanded that William leave the house. To seek help, since Meghan was not at home, Harry called his therapist. At the age of thirty-four, he still could not cope with such an argument.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-56" id="en0-56" role="doc-noteref">56</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the background, aggravating the Sussexes, was Thomas Markle’s continuing denunciation of his daughter on TV and in newspapers. Thomas’s coruscating condemnation of Meghan was watched by millions across the globe. Despite the tension within her office, Meghan still relied on Knauf to solve her problems. With his help, in August 2018, Meghan <span id="page_46"/>had handwritten a letter to her father urging him to refrain from public criticism. Although she assumed that her letter would eventually be leaked to a newspaper, it was sent to her Los Angeles business manager Andrew Meyer for delivery to Thomas in Mexico.</p>
<p class="txt">Simultaneously, Meghan asked Knauf to spend two hours briefing journalist Omid Scobie about her background for his proposed book about the Sussexes. At the time it was untitled, but eventually published under the title <em>Finding Freedom</em>. Despite anticipating that Scobie’s book would support Meghan and represent her case against the Royal Family, Knauf helped the journalist with personal information provided by Meghan. Later, Meghan would sign a legal statement that she had never asked Knauf to speak to Scobie.</p>
<p class="txt">Few outsiders knew about the fractured relations when the Royal Family gathered at Sandringham for the annual Christmas party in December 2018. Photographs of the family’s famous walk to church on Christmas Day showed the smiling Fab Four together. Their performance was perfect. Within Sandringham, though, eyewitnesses saw entrenched frostiness between the two families. The Sussexes had every reason to feel isolated. Distrusted by his family, Harry watched his wife spiral into misery after reading the media’s accounts of her misconduct.</p>
<p class="txt">Sandringham offered Meghan no comfort. Under grey skies on flat Norfolk countryside, its old furnishings reeked of the post-war era, with antiquated bathrooms installed shortly after 1945. Visitors were offered sausage sizzles and walks. The hierarchical atmosphere within the gloomy house was deemed to be the legacy of Queen Mary, the austere wife of George V. Her rigid rules imposed unnatural formalities on close relatives. ‘Your father,’ she told her two sons, ‘is the King. Address him as “Sir”.’ Her legacy still permeated Sandringham seventy years after she died. ‘It’s hell to live as a hangover of Mary,’ said one of Mary’s descendants. ‘It’s hell to be a royal.’</p>
<p class="txt">On her return to London, Meghan poured out her grief to her American <span id="page_47"/>girlfriends. The golden days of the wedding, a mere seven months earlier, were long forgotten. During those frequent calls, Meghan’s friends commiserated and encouraged her disdain about the Royal Family. They supported her desire to shine like Californian glitterati, not live like a hermit with the discretion demanded by Buckingham Palace. They listened sympathetically to her complaints that the hierarchy was stifling her potential. ‘They’re suppressing my creativity,’ she complained. ‘I can’t express my true self.’ She was fighting ‘in the trenches’, she later recalled.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-57" id="en0-57" role="doc-noteref">57</a></sup> Being ordered by Palace officials to wear ‘nude pantyhose all the time’ made her feel ‘inauthentic’, she complained.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-58" id="en0-58" role="doc-noteref">58</a></sup> A homily offered by the NBC executive who launched <em>Suits</em>, Bonnie Hammer, appealed to Meghan. Namely, the importance of ‘self-love’, having ‘a very strong sense of self’ and ‘finding someone who believes in you’. Harry had filled that role. And Harry, Meghan said, should also adopt self-love.</p>
<p class="txt">Whether anyone realised that Meghan had reached a tipping point is doubtful. In Meghan’s version, on 16th January 2019, she felt suicidal. ‘I just didn’t want to be alive any more,’ she would say.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-59" id="en0-59" role="doc-noteref">59</a></sup> If she could not be the Queen, then she would destroy her enemies, just as she had her father and anyone who frustrated her ambition.</p>
<p class="txt">The publication of America’s <em>People</em> magazine on 6th February 2019 sealed her fate. Actress Abigail Spencer had approached Dan Wakeford, the magazine’s editor, and revealed Meghan’s deep misery. Four other girlfriends of Meghan also agreed to speak ‘anonymously’ to the magazine about the horrors Meghan was facing. Two of those women also disclosed a version of Meghan’s letter to her father. The confirmation of the existence of that letter and the quotes of Meghan’s words could only have originated from Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-60" id="en0-60" role="doc-noteref">60</a></sup> The global reaction to <em>People</em>’s revelations was explosive. Once again, to the world it seemed that Meghan had betrayed her father.</p>
<p class="txt">Despite Meghan’s hysterical demands that Knauf deny the truth on her behalf, he refused to reply to the hundreds of media enquiries. <span id="page_48"/>Stonewalling the world with ‘no comment’, the Royal Family and Palace officials concluded that Harry, influenced by Meghan’s vengeance, had become her uncontrollable accomplice.</p>
<p class="txt">In Mexico, Thomas Markle was outraged by the magazine’s portrayal of the letter as Meghan’s bid for reconciliation. ‘A total lie,’ he told the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s Caroline Graham. ‘Meghan’s a total liar and very controlling.’ To prove Meghan’s duplicity, Markle showed Graham his daughter’s letter. In Thomas’s version, Meghan’s letter was a reprimand combined with implicit threats. Excerpts were published in the London newspaper.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-61" id="en0-61" role="doc-noteref">61</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The battle between the media and Meghan had become public and brutal. Her supporters, alias the ‘Sussex Squad’, condemned journalists as ‘sexist, racist and snobs’.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>