<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 6</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct6" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct6"><span id="page_49"/>CHAPTER 6</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>A Divisive Agent</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Meghan sensed a turning point. Throughout her life, she had desired media attention. To many, her ambition and opportunism had spurred her eagerness to marry Harry, but her ultimate goal was unattainable. Ever since the wedding, she had felt trapped. Having given Harry emotional security, her influence bestowed power – and an opportunity to influence Harry’s relationship with the Crown, his family and, finally, with Britain. Every step to resolve the complications of his life, especially his obsessions about his mother, the media and his mental health, was carefully considered. Either genuinely disturbed or the master of a Hollywood performance, Meghan gradually convinced Harry that, like Diana, she too was the victim of Palace intrigue. To escape persecution and as the cure to his unhappiness, Meghan suggested they might need to leave Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-62" id="en0-62" role="doc-noteref">62</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘It was bittersweet, you know?’ Meghan reflected later. ‘Knowing that none of it had to be this way.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-63" id="en0-63" role="doc-noteref">63</a></sup> If Palace officials and the Royal Family had bowed to her demands, she suggested, she would not have returned to California. The realities dictated it was her way or the highway.</p>
<p class="txt">As they discussed the solution to their combined misery, Harry did not contemplate his disloyalty to his family. On the contrary, he accused them of treachery.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-64" id="en0-64" role="doc-noteref">64</a></sup> ‘I was obsessed,’ Harry would admit about the <span id="page_50"/>hours he spent during the day and night searching the internet.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-65" id="en0-65" role="doc-noteref">65</a></sup> The British media, said Harry, was ‘toxic [and] destroying my mental health’. Like Meghan, he was unable to resist reading the online condemnation. He was consumed by the media’s refusal to regard Meghan as utterly perfect, a paragon of virtue. Eager to ‘destroy’ his and Meghan’s lives, the ‘wolves’ were ‘distorting the truth’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-66" id="en0-66" role="doc-noteref">66</a></sup> Every slight confirmed that the monster was devouring him. Creeping isolation gnawed at his self-confidence.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Don’t read it,’ Charles told Harry about the media, but his son clearly could not resist. Harry was certain that his family were ‘complicit’ in the ‘pain and suffering’ inflicted on Meghan by trolls and the tabloids. In Harry’s version there was a conspiracy between Palace officials and the media to plant negative stories about the Sussexes. The Royal Family’s motive, he said, was self-protection from the media’s possession of a ‘shit ton of dirt about my family’. Probably, he said, Kate and William were fuelling the antagonism. His beloved Meghan now shared his own fate as the victim of ‘institutional gaslighting’. Both their reputations were being trashed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-67" id="en0-67" role="doc-noteref">67</a></sup> His mother’s murderers, he was convinced, would destroy his next great love.</p>
<p class="txt">In the midst of that discussion, on 20th February 2019, just six weeks before giving birth to Archie, Meghan arrived in New York for a baby shower. Hosted by Serena Williams the extravagant party for fifteen Americans in a £57,000-a-day penthouse suite at The Mark Hotel signalled Meghan’s rejection of drab royalty and her embrace of Hollywood glitz. All of her friends were later seen to monetise their relationship with the Duchess, just as she used the trip to lay the foundations for her return to Los Angeles. Two years later, Meghan ridiculously accused the Palace of taking away her passport to prevent her travelling.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-68" id="en0-68" role="doc-noteref">68</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On the advice of her Hollywood agent, Meghan swiftly organised a new website to promote Brand Sussex. ‘She can call her own shots,’ said <span id="page_51"/>her spokesman.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-69" id="en0-69" role="doc-noteref">69</a></sup> In a familiar pattern, as she opened her new website, she told an audience, ‘I don’t read any social media.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-70" id="en0-70" role="doc-noteref">70</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">While Meghan secretly negotiated her return to California – and openly pitched to Hollywood producers to re-establish her acting career – Harry went through the motions of creating a separate office for the Sussexes’ own charities in London. Disingenuously, Buckingham Palace’s announcement on 14th March about the creation of two offices for the Sussexes and Cambridges denied there had been a ‘rift’ between the ‘Fab Four’. In reality, the split was even deeper than insiders acknowledged.</p>
<p class="txt">Amid a deliberate plan to confuse the public and the Palace about the timings, Harry’s son Archie was born on 6th May at the Portland, a private hospital in London. Although the gynaecologist was named as Melissa Drake with remote support by childbirth expert Gowri Motha, over the following weeks, due to the lack of information being made public, conspiracy theories flourished and Meghan’s critics became convinced that Archie was delivered from a surrogate mother.</p>
<p class="txt">To protect her family’s ‘privacy’, Meghan broke convention by forbidding any pictures of Archie with the Queen and Prince Philip to be shared with the media. Buckingham Palace’s most senior officials quietly agreed for the first time that Meghan was a liar.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-71" id="en0-71" role="doc-noteref">71</a></sup> ‘We weren’t asked to take a picture,’ Meghan initially explained. ‘That was part of the spin; that was really damaging.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-72" id="en0-72" role="doc-noteref">72</a></sup> Clearly realising that was inaccurate, she then admitted that she herself had banned photographs. That was, she told Oprah Winfrey, her protest about the Palace denying Archie a prince’s title and also police protection: ‘I was very scared of having to offer up our baby, knowing that they weren’t going to be kept safe.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-73" id="en0-73" role="doc-noteref">73</a></sup> Both those explanations were untrue, but contradictions in Meghan’s narrative were not unusual.</p>
<p class="txt">After his birth, Meghan announced that Archie would be a ‘private citizen’ without a title.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-74" id="en0-74" role="doc-noteref">74</a></sup> Later, she insisted that the Royal Family had <span id="page_52"/>denied Archie a title – and because he had no title, he would not be protected by the police. And her reason for both denials was the Royal Family’s objection to Archie’s brown skin. ‘How does that make sense?’ she would ask Oprah Winfrey.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-75" id="en0-75" role="doc-noteref">75</a></sup> Those accusations were untrue. On his birth, Archie became Lord Dumbarton, a traditional title given to the Duke’s son, a vital detail Meghan left out of the conversations.</p>
<p class="txt">Three years later, Meghan gave another reason: she refused to allow the first photos of Archie to be distributed to the British media because the tabloids were ‘the very people that are calling my children the N-word’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-76" id="en0-76" role="doc-noteref">76</a></sup> It was a statement that was clearly designed to shock but inaccurate, the original reference in question coming from a tabloid headline highlighting ‘niggling doubts’, an old Danish phrase that can be traced back to the Vikings with no connection to race.</p>
<p class="txt">The real truth to many senior officials was that since the newspapers would not pay her for the photographs, Meghan decided there was no reason to co-operate. Unknown to the public and the Palace, before Archie’s birth, Meghan had already laid the groundwork for an agreement leading to her interview in 2021 with Oprah Winfrey and the American broadcaster CBS. The first photographs of Archie were available only to CBS.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was aware of Meghan’s transaction. To establish the Sussexes’ financial foothold in America, Harry had also agreed to tell his personal family story in a series called <em>Mental Wellness</em> with Apple TV. The producer would be Oprah Winfrey. Everything was falling into place for a headline-grabbing exit from Britain.</p>
<p class="txt">William’s original fear was materialising. Meghan had become a divisive agent. To please her, Harry was ignoring his old friends. He had even changed his telephone number without telling his family.</p>
<p class="txt">During the summer of 2019, the Sussexes’ office was more chaotic than usual, while anger and hysterics raged within the Sussexes’ home. Harry’s few remaining friends witnessed a man transformed. <span id="page_53"/>The jovial lad about town had become possessed by seeking revenge. Increasingly, his character mirrored Meghan’s. Emotionally, he veered towards extremes. Simple dislikes became passionate hatred. ‘Meghan’s brainwashed Harry,’ Camilla told a friend.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-77" id="en0-77" role="doc-noteref">77</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s and Meghan’s behaviour had prompted another two aides, Samantha Cohen and Amy Pickerill, to resign. ‘We have very exhausting principals,’ admitted Marnie Gaffney, Buckingham Palace’s media assistant attached to the Sussexes. Owing to Meghan’s self-love and Harry’s mean-mindedness, the couple blamed the staff for the fall-out. Harry conjured the scenario for their departure. ‘The breaking point for me,’ he said, ‘was finding Meghan in tears while breastfeeding Archie. The cause was the poisonous tabloids’ reports about “Duchess Difficult”,’ continued Harry. ‘And she is someone who doesn’t read the stories. She would be dead if she was reading the stories.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-78" id="en0-78" role="doc-noteref">78</a></sup> How Meghan became aware of the media’s stories highlighting her impertinence without reading them online was unexplained. Nor whether her tears were genuine. As she once boasted to fellow actors, she could produce tears on demand. ‘I can do that so well. Oh my God, it’s crazy.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-79" id="en0-79" role="doc-noteref">79</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In July 2019, Meghan rejected the Queen’s invitation to visit Balmoral. Archie, she explained, was too young to fly. Days later, though, she flew with her two-month-old baby to the South of France as guests of Elton John. The world assumed that the Sussexes’ jaunt on Elton John’s private jet was for a holiday. No one knew that the singer had arranged for Harry to meet David Sherborne, a barrister specialising in suing newspapers.</p>
<p class="txt">Aged fifty, Sherborne was mocked as a vain, slick operator dressed in unusually tight suits with dyed hair and skin toned by a sunbed. He was also notorious for his colourful relationships with women. Following two marriages and two divorces, he had brushed with scandal after enjoying an affair with a fellow lawyer while both worked on the Leveson inquiry, a controversial investigation in 2011 into the illegal <span id="page_54"/>practices by newspapers to invade celebrities’ private lives in search of news and scandal.</p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne was on a mission. Consumed by his desire to expose newspapers’ crimes, he had represented actors and entertainment professionals, including Elton John and Hugh Grant. His loathing of newspapers appeared to be matched by his desire to push himself in front of cameras alongside his famous clients. Adding Harry would naturally hugely boost his campaign. Not only would a royal’s inclusion be unprecedented but the chances of success would improve. ‘We needed someone with money,’ Hugh Grant admitted in an ITV documentary.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-80" id="en0-80" role="doc-noteref">80</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the warm, affluent atmosphere of Elton John’s Mediterranean villa, Harry willingly fell into Sherborne’s lap. His sales patter was no doubt enticing. Among his past clients, said Sherborne, were Michael Douglas, Tony Blair and Harry’s mother, Princess Diana. Critically, as a lawyer in the Leveson inquiry, Sherborne had seen the list of payments by the newspapers to private investigators between 2005 and 2011. Only with great reluctance had the newspapers handed over that potentially incriminating evidence, relying on Judge Leveson’s promise that their documents would never be published. They would be sealed by law, promised Leveson, and could not be published without Ministerial permission. Sherborne did not forget what he had read.</p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne added a critical ingredient to his fluent sales patter. In 2015, he had won a notable victory against the Mirror Group.The judge, Anthony Mann, had decided that the <em>Mirror</em>’s journalists and editors were immersed in a widespread culture of ‘extensive and habitual’ unlawful activities including hacking telephone voicemails.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-81" id="en0-81" role="doc-noteref">81</a></sup> ‘Habitual’ meant that illegality was routine for the journalists during that period. If a journalist had contact with a hacker, said Sherborne, the journalist was himself a hacker. Many journalists, he believed, had lied to Leveson and destroyed incriminating evidence.</p>
<p class="txt">Eight claimants won against the <em>Mirror.</em> Rival lawyers were stunned by <span id="page_55"/>Judge Mann’s antagonism towards the newspaper group and his generosity to Sherborne. Demolished by that judgement, the Mirror Group, which had published an apology for phone hacking even before the first trial started, thereafter settled other claims, paying damages and costs.</p>
<p class="txt">To Harry’s glee, Sherborne added that Rupert Murdoch’s News UK was equally culpable. Rebekah Brooks, the former editor of the <em>News of the World</em> and the <em>Sun</em>, had been identified by Leveson as knowing about her journalists’ unlawful activities. Brooks had been prosecuted and acquitted, Sherborne acknowledged, but she could still be sued to recover damages. News UK’s records, continued Sherborne, showed hundreds of payments by their newspapers to private investigators. Among their targets was Harry’s former girlfriend, the Zimbabwean Chelsy Davy. Unlawfully, they had hacked into her voicemail, emails and Facebook account, it would later be claimed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-82" id="en0-82" role="doc-noteref">82</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne then surely delivered the final inducement: the litigation would cost Harry very little. He would bear no financial risk. The reason was that all the claimants’ lawyers worked on a contingency basis – no win, no fee. All Harry needed was an insurance policy to cover the newspapers’ costs in the unlikely event he lost. And Sherborne had never lost. That formula would earn Sherborne at least £40 million and enrich Temple Legal Protection, the insurance company which pocketed a large slice of the damages awarded by the judges to the claimants. To monopolise the litigation, Sherborne and the solicitors staggered their cases: first the <em>Mirror</em>, next News UK, and finally they would target the <em>Daily Mail</em> group.</p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne, Harry decided, was ‘a lovely fellow who knew more about the hacking scandal than anyone I’d ever met’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-83" id="en0-83" role="doc-noteref">83</a></sup> With that, he unleashed his fury. He damned newspapers for ruining his life. And vowed to get his revenge.</p>
<p class="txt">For over ten years, Harry believed, the tabloids had targeted him by unlawful means. Sherborne crafted his sentiments about the tabloids: <span id="page_56"/>‘They would very quickly seek to try and break up [every relationship] by putting as much strain on it and creating as much distrust as humanly possible.’ He believed the tabloids’ malice continued: ‘This twisted objective is still pursued to this day even though I’m now married.’ He felt ‘as though the tabloid press thought that they owned me absolutely’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-84" id="en0-84" role="doc-noteref">84</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Trusting the lawyer, Harry admitted: ‘I could have been hacked on a daily basis. I simply don’t know.’ All he knew was their intrusion had been horrendous. Similarly, he also said that Meghan was the ‘prey’ for online ‘hunters’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-85" id="en0-85" role="doc-noteref">85</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry went further though. He blamed the media for his own mistakes – drunkenness, drugs, wearing a Nazi uniform at a party and being filmed nude at a Las Vegas hotel. Newspapers, he believed, should have suppressed the truth. He made no allowance that other royals had suffered worse. Not least Charles and Camilla, with the excruciatingly embarrassing ‘Tampongate’ recording in 1989, and his mother with ‘Squidgygate’ – taped calls of her conversations in the late 1980s with her lover James Gilbey.</p>
<p class="txt">How, Harry asked Sherborne, could he ‘find a way to stop the abuse, intrusion and hate that was coming towards me and my wife?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-86" id="en0-86" role="doc-noteref">86</a></sup> In the past, his desire to attack the media had been blocked by the Palace, but now he wanted to wage war. Except, in public, he spoke about his ‘life’s mission to reform the media’. The Palace, he explained, had blocked his previous attempts for retribution by citing a secret agreement between News Group and Buckingham Palace concluded in 2012 or earlier. To keep the media onside while Charles smoothed Camilla’s path to become Queen, the Royal Family had agreed not to sue News Group for hacking their telephones. In 2017, continued Harry, the Royal Family with the Queen’s agreement concluded a settlement with Murdoch for News Group’s ‘unlawful information gathering’. William was paid £1 million but Harry received nothing. Thereafter, said Harry, Charles discouraged him from bringing a claim against News Group.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-87" id="en0-87" role="doc-noteref">87</a></sup> There <span id="page_57"/>was no evidence, Charles had said, that Harry had been hacked. His father, said Harry, had been involved in the cover-up.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Why not hire your own lawyer?’ asked Sherborne. By suing newspapers he could discover if he had been hacked. That had never occurred to Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-88" id="en0-88" role="doc-noteref">88</a></sup> Under Sherborne’s tutelage, the Prince let him dictate the next steps. The Sussexes had crossed a boundary. They were about to embark on an eight-year battle against Britain’s newspapers.</p>
<p class="txt">On their return to London, Harry consulted the Royal Family’s trusted solicitor Gerrard Tyrrell of Harbottle &amp; Lewis. Yet the lawyer advised against suing News Group. Swiftly, Meghan convinced Harry that Tyrrell was ‘taking directions from Clarence House’. The same solicitor had advised Meghan not to sue the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> for breaching her privacy and copyright by publishing excerpts from her letter to her father. Meghan had ignored Tyrrell and the Palace and, on Sherborne’s advice, hired Schillings.</p>
<p class="txt">Keith Schillings is an aggressive London solicitor not previously employed by the Royal Family. Proudly, he is the antithesis of Tyrrell, a pukka West End lawyer.</p>
<p class="txt">Before he acted, Harry called William. His brother suggested that ‘I seek permission from Granny.’ Harry called the Queen and, he claimed, she agreed he could bring an action. Palace officials were not consulted. The timetable for what followed was set by Schillings.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-89" id="en0-89" role="doc-noteref">89</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Relying on Sherborne and his publicists, Harry also agreed to issue court claims against Mirror Group Newspapers and News UK for their unlawful activities. At the same time, Meghan would ignore the Palace’s advice and claim against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>. Schillings’ argument was precise: Meghan’s relationship with her father was private. No public interest could justify breaching her copyright and privacy by publishing her letter.</p>
<p class="txt">Attacking the media would be the Sussexes’ curtain-raiser to leaving Britain. Their declaration of war was to be broadcast in South Africa.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>