<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 7</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct7" role="heading"><span id="page_58"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct7">CHAPTER 7</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Leaving Britain</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">On the eve of leaving for a ten-day official tour of South Africa on 23rd September, Beth Herlihy, a private secretary in Kensington Palace, noticed that Meghan was suffering from ‘baby blues’. ‘She’s having a breakdown,’ Herlihy confided. ‘She’s very unhappy and Harry can’t fix it.’</p>
<p class="txt">Over the previous months, Palace officials had devoted huge effort to please the Sussexes’ constantly changing demands. Their procrastination and indecisiveness had, in the opinion of one senior Palace advisor, become a ‘sickness’. Unexpectedly, even Archie became a tool of the Sussexes’ brand. Meghan insisted that their son, at only four months old, should also come on the official tour to South Africa. Palace officials were puzzled. Just three weeks earlier, Meghan had refused to visit the Queen in Balmoral because Archie was too young to fly. Some now understood her intentions and, more significantly, Harry’s insincerity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-90" id="en0-90" role="doc-noteref">90</a></sup> Africa, Harry had repeatedly said, was critical to his life. Yet it appeared that he was planning to ignore the importance of Britain’s reputation during the tour to publicise his personal agenda.</p>
<p class="txt">During the first days in South Africa, the tour was hugely successful. Corralled British journalists, kept away from the Sussexes, ecstatically <span id="page_59"/>reported Meghan’s virtuoso speeches. Posing as ‘a mother, feminist and advocate’, she addressed eager audiences as a Hollywood celebrity, the women’s champion, an anti-racist warrior and, above all, as ‘your sister’.</p>
<p class="txt">Unreported was the Sussexes’ conduct. Both Meghan and Harry were ignoring advice from all their courtiers. Sara Latham, on the Sussexes’ media staff, was seen in tears and another member of her staff condemned Meghan as ‘a nightmare’. Jason Knauf and the human resources director Samantha Carruthers had both resigned. Carruthers complained of being ‘treated harshly’. Those convulsions remained unreported by the media, but worse was imminent. Harry planned to deliver a bombshell statement prepared by his lawyers in London.</p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring pleas by Palace officials not to ruin the tour, Harry fired his first shot. Journalists in South Africa were directed to read Harry’s post on the Sussexes’ official website that had been drafted by Sherborne. The Prince denounced the ‘press pack’ for ‘relentless propaganda’ against Meghan by pursuing ‘a game, and one that we have been unwilling to play from the start’. Harry continued, ‘Unfortunately, my wife has become one of the latest victims of a British tabloid press that wages campaigns against individuals with no thought to the consequences, a ruthless campaign that has escalated over the past year, throughout her pregnancy and while raising our newborn son. There is a human cost to this relentless propaganda, specifically when it is knowingly false and malicious, and though we have continued to put on a brave face, as so many of you can relate to, I cannot begin to describe how painful it has been. Because in today’s digital age, press fabrications are repurposed as truth across the globe. One day’s coverage is no longer tomorrow’s chip paper.’</p>
<p class="txt">Clearly forgetting her New York baby shower, Harry claimed that the media had created ‘lie after lie at her expense simply because she has not been visible while on maternity leave’. While failing to identify <span id="page_60"/>the ‘lies’, he revealed their anguish: ‘I have been a silent witness to her private suffering for too long . . . To stand back and do nothing would be contrary to everything we believe in. There comes a point when the only thing to do is to stand up to this behaviour, because it destroys people and destroys lives. Put simply, it is bullying, which scares and silences people. We all know this isn’t acceptable.’</p>
<p class="txt">Finally, he referenced Princess Diana, the omnipresent shadow of his mother. Meghan, he said, was ‘falling victim to the same powerful forces’ and his ‘deepest fear is history repeating itself. I’ve seen what happens when someone I love is commoditised to the point that they are no longer treated or seen as a real person. I lost my mother and now I watch my wife falling victim to the same powerful forces.’</p>
<p class="txt">Shortly afterwards, legal firm Schillings issued a High Court claim on Meghan’s behalf against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>. British judges, Keith Schilling knew, could be trusted to protect the Royal Family from embarrassment. The <em>Mail on Sunday</em>, Meghan claimed, was ‘deliberately stirring up’ a dispute between Meghan and Thomas Markle as part of an ‘agenda’. Her father, described as a ‘vulnerable and fragile individual’ had been ‘exploited . . . harassed and manipulated’ by the media. Hours later, Thomas Markle robustly ridiculed those suggestions.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Hysterical’, ‘ill-advised’, ‘hot-headed’, ‘self-indulgent’ and ‘over-emotional’ were a few of the newspapers’ verdicts about Harry’s statement and Meghan’s High Court claim. The mood on the tour turned sour. The Sussexes had tainted months of hard work to improve Britain’s status in South Africa.</p>
<p class="txt">The third assault, a full-frontal attack on the Royal Family, was simultaneously being filmed in South Africa for ITV by Tom Bradby, a trusted friend of Harry’s. The TV documentary, <em>Harry &amp; Meghan: An African Journey,</em> was meant to focus on the Sussexes talking about South Africa’s human tragedies. Instead, the Sussexes used Bradby to issue their declaration of war.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_61"/>Seemingly uninterested in the distressful lives of the people living in a nearby township as portrayed by ITV, the Sussexes spoke about their own plight. Harry retold how Diana’s death had brought him close to a breakdown. The trauma of walking behind his mother’s coffin in public reminded him of the ‘bad stuff’ and ‘a wound that festers’. He continued, ‘I think being part of this family, in this role, in this job, every single time I see a camera, every single time I hear a click, every single time I see a flash it takes me straight back, so in that respect it’s the worst reminder of her life as opposed to the best.’ Then he made his bombshell revelation. Persuaded by Meghan that all relationships were dispensable, Harry disclosed that his relationship with William was fractured: ‘We’re on different paths at the moment.’</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan provided an even more explosive interview. Clearly rehearsed, she dramatically bit her lip in the falling light as she whispered to Bradby that she felt ‘vulnerable’ during her pregnancy, how the pressure was ‘hard’ and the experience of ‘just trying to be a new mother or trying to be a newlywed’ was ‘made really challenging’. As tears welled up, she blamed the British tabloids for trying to destroy her life. American newspapers, she emphasised, would never criticise her. ‘I really tried to adopt this sensibility of the British stiff upper lip . . . I never thought this would be easy, but I thought it would be fair.’ Though many will sympathise with the emotional plight of a new mother, it should not be forgotten that Meghan had boasted she could produce tears on demand.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-91" id="en0-91" role="doc-noteref">91</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Would it be fair, asked Bradby, to say that she is ‘not really OK’? Another tear dramatically fell as Meghan replied with a swipe at the Royal Family: ‘Yes. And also, thank you for asking, because not many people have asked if I’m OK. But it’s a very real thing to be going through behind the scenes.’ With a hint of more tears, she deftly added another rehearsed line: ‘It’s not enough to just survive something, right? That is not the point of life. You’ve got to thrive.’</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_62"/>Left dangling was the Sussexes’ future. ‘I don’t know,’ replied Meghan. ‘You do just take each day as it comes.’ Harry had already made his plans: ‘I did what any husband and father would do. I needed to get my family out of there.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-92" id="en0-92" role="doc-noteref">92</a></sup> The royal tour came to an abrupt end and the pair returned to Britain ‘confident’ and ‘courageous’, as recalled by a Palace employee. Two years later, Meghan claimed that during her marriage, she had been forcibly ‘silenced’ by the Palace, not allowed to express any opinions.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-93" id="en0-93" role="doc-noteref">93</a></sup> Yet their defiance at that time had made their South African tour a success – for themselves.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was summoned to Buckingham Palace to meet Edward Young and Clive Alderton, the Queen’s and Charles’s private secretaries. Tall with floppy hair, Alderton, aged fifty-two, educated at Abingdon School, had entered the Foreign Office despite not going to university. After serving as a diplomat, he had been appointed to work in Clarence House in 2006, shortly after Charles’s and Camilla’s marriage. To have survived in Charles’s service for that long proved Alderton had exceptional talent never to challenge his employer. As a charming old-school courtier, he could both reassure Charles of his obedience but also steer his employer in the right direction.</p>
<p class="txt">By contrast, Young, aged fifty-three, bespectacled and stubby, was a cautious former corporate head of communications who had been deputy to Christopher Geidt, the Queen’s legendary and loyal private secretary. Geidt had been ousted in 2017 by Charles and Prince Andrew for seeking to control their dangerous excesses. Both princes were involved in what Geidt believed were damaging financial activities. And in Andrew’s case, particularly his relationship with the American paedophile Jeffrey Epstein. Geidt wanted to control both princes from Buckingham Palace. Yet despite his impressive military bearing, Geidt’s weakness was arguably his lack of leadership qualities. After his dismissal, the royal households were staffed by contrary courtiers – especially Young versus Alderton – each guarding their fiefdoms, <span id="page_63"/>torn between serving individual members of the Royal Family and the institution of the monarchy. To the Crown’s misfortune, Young had been an ideal deputy but was regarded by insiders to have been promoted above his abilities.</p>
<p class="txt">In the case of Harry’s war against the media, Alderton and Young were united. Both ‘demanded’ that Harry did not sue News UK.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-94" id="en0-94" role="doc-noteref">94</a></sup> Harry ignored their advice. There was worse to come.</p>
<p class="txt">ITV planned to broadcast Bradby’s South African interviews during the Cambridges’ official visit to Pakistan. The tour was important both for British diplomacy and to showcase Kate’s transformation during her maternity leave into a more glamorous, self-confident woman. Harry was asked to negotiate with ITV to delay the broadcast. He refused. It was a move that was judged to be wanton sabotage of the Cambridges. An almost unnoticed casualty was another TV documentary, crafted to promote Camilla.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-95" id="en0-95" role="doc-noteref">95</a></sup> Among members of the Royal Family, the Sussexes had lost the benefit of any doubt.</p>
<p class="txt">On 12th November, Hillary Clinton visited Meghan at Frogmore House. As Meghan unloaded her anxieties, Clinton offered her unqualified understanding. Meghan’s treatment, Clinton believed, was ‘heart-breaking and wrong’. In the politician’s opinion, Meghan’s meteoric rise was being crushed by the Royal Family. The Sussexes, she believed, were ‘struggling to have a life of meaning and integrity on their own terms’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-96" id="en0-96" role="doc-noteref">96</a></sup> Clinton, it appeared, had willingly participated in Meghan’s well-crafted choreography to escape from the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">By then, Meghan’s publicist Keleigh Thomas Morgan had found a temporary home for the Sussexes – a secluded seaside mansion on Vancouver Island, conveniently north of Los Angeles. Three weeks later, the Sussexes arrived at Mille Fleurs, a luxurious five-bedroomed waterfront mansion where they would be guarded by six Canadian government protection officers. Their stay had been arranged by the 71-year-old Canadian music producer David Foster, a friend and <span id="page_64"/>neighbour in Santa Barbara of Oprah Winfrey. Like Meghan, Foster was represented by Keleigh Thomas Morgan.</p>
<p class="txt">Officially, the Sussexes would not spend Christmas at Sandringham after all. Their spokesman briefed that the couple would establish a presence in a Commonwealth country. From Vancouver, said her spokeswoman, Meghan could ‘resume her business activities’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-97" id="en0-97" role="doc-noteref">97</a></sup> Located in the same time zone as Los Angeles, Meghan was in constant communication with Andrew Meyer, her business manager, Rick Genow, her lawyer and Keleigh Thomas Morgan. Together, they plotted their final journey – to Los Angeles.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>