<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 8</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct8" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct8"><span id="page_65"/>CHAPTER 8</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Sandringham</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Harry and Meghan knew exactly what they wanted from the Royal Family – status, money and protection. Only eighteen months after their wedding, they were negotiating their exit.</p>
<p class="txt">Under Meghan’s guidance, Harry had composed an email to his father setting out their demands. Fearing it would be leaked to the media over Christmas, he held it back. He was unaware that a member of his own staff had passed it to Dan Wootton, the <em>Sun</em>’s showbiz editor. But, concerned about a backlash after the Palace had strongly denied the truth about the Sussexes leaving Britain, the newspaper’s editor refused to publish Wootton’s scoop.The Sussexes, wrote Wootton, planned to divide their time in North America between representing the Crown and, at the same time, using their royal titles to earn money.</p>
<p class="txt">Even without reading Harry’s email, Charles and the Queen knew from telephone conversations with him that he wanted to disengage from royal service in Britain. Not least because among his proposals, Harry suggested that if a solution could not be found, ‘we would be willing to relinquish our Sussexes titles, if need be’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-98" id="en0-98" role="doc-noteref">98</a></sup> He failed to mention that the titles could probably only be revoked by an Act of Parliament. After several exhausting calls, the 93-year-old monarch told her grandson to speak exclusively to Charles. For his part, Charles was united with <span id="page_66"/>William that they should not concede to Harry’s demands. All three royals sought advice from their private secretaries. The most important was the Queen’s private secretary, Edward Young.</p>
<p class="txt">Unsure how to resolve the Sussexes’ demands, Young consulted Charles’s private secretary, Clive Alderton. Alderton’s suspicions about Meghan were shared by Simon Case, William’s secretary. By then, the three had discussed Knauf’s complaints about Meghan’s mistreatment of her staff but had done absolutely nothing. Meghan’s staff remained unprotected and she had not been formally advised to control her behaviour. All three had obeyed their bosses: the Queen, Charles and William. Nothing, the three had decided, should be done to further inflame the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">All three private secretaries had similar qualities. They were solid, loyal and decent. They were also cautious courtiers accustomed not to take the initiative. Their survival depended on giving advice that they knew would please their royal masters. Stepping out of line was unimaginable. Notoriously, Charles instantly dismissed anyone who failed to give him unquestioned obedience, whereas the Queen usually listened to advice before making a decision. William was known to take advice but occasionally failed to control his temper. All three private secretaries understood that the royal command was final. In those circumstances they had failed during November to fully persuade the Royal Family that the Sussex crisis, brewing since the wedding eighteen months earlier, was about to escalate.</p>
<p class="txt">Confirmation of the Sussexes’ real intentions arrived in London just before Christmas 2019 from the British High Commission in Ottawa and the Canadian government. Conversations with the Sussexes and others indicated that the couple intended to stay in North America and never return permanently to Britain. The Queen was not surprised by Young’s report that the Sussexes weren’t coming back: ‘Of course not. They took the dogs.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-99" id="en0-99" role="doc-noteref">99</a></sup> On the Queen’s orders, Young ensured that no <span id="page_67"/>photograph of the Sussexes stood on the table beside the Queen during her Christmas broadcast. Watching in Vancouver, Harry was shocked, not understanding the consequences of his actions.</p>
<p class="txt">Discussions were to begin again in the new year. Before leaving Vancouver for London on 5th January with Meghan, Harry expected to head from Heathrow to Sandringham for tea with the Queen and to stay overnight. During those hours, he planned to persuade his grand-mother to approve their planned semi-exile. Later, Harry would claim that the Queen was not surprised that he went to America. ‘She knew what was going on. She knew how hard it was. She never said to me she was angry. I think she was sad it got to that point.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-100" id="en0-100" role="doc-noteref">100</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">But other opinions would suggest that Harry had deluded himself. The Queen’s closest officials recorded that the Queen was mystified by the Sussexes’ behaviour. She did not trust Meghan and suspected Harry had been manipulated. She was easily persuaded by Charles and William that the Sussexes should not be invited to Sandringham after they arrived. Accordingly, just before boarding the plane, Harry was told that the arrangement was cancelled. He called his grandmother. ‘There’s something in my diary I didn’t know I had,’ the Queen told him. ‘I didn’t know I was busy. I’ve been told that I’m busy all week.’</p>
<p class="txt">During the nine-hour flight, Harry fumed. ‘They’re blocking a grandson from seeing his grandmother,’ he told Meghan. He blamed his family’s three private secretaries. ‘I’d spent my life dealing with courtiers, scores of them,’ Harry would recall. ‘But now I dealt with just three, all middle-aged white men who’d managed to consolidate power through a series of bold Machiavellian manoeuvres.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-101" id="en0-101" role="doc-noteref">101</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The following year, with the help of the ghostwriter of his autobiography, Harry would categorise the three private secretaries. Simon Case, William’s private secretary, known in Kensington Palace as ‘master of circumvention’, was called the Fly: ‘The Fly had spent much of his career adjacent to and indeed drawn to shit. The offal of government <span id="page_68"/>media and wormy entrails, he loved it, grew fat on it, rubbed his hands in glee over it.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-102" id="en0-102" role="doc-noteref">102</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Clive Alderton, Charles’s private secretary, was the Wasp: ‘He was great at pretending to be polite, even servile . . . A short while later, without warning, he’d give you such a stab with his outsized stinger that you’d cry out in confusion: Where the fuck did that come from?’</p>
<p class="txt">Edward Young was dubbed the Bee: ‘Poised that people didn’t fear him [which was] a big mistake, sometimes their last mistake.’</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s colourful exaggeration of the men’s abilities was dictated by his attitude towards those who refused to give him what he wanted: ‘I disliked these men and they didn’t have any use for me. They considered me irrelevant at best, stupid at worst.’ In his naivety Harry refused to understand that the private secretaries owed their loyalty to the interest of the monarchy and the Queen, and to no one else. Their task was to protect the Crown.</p>
<p class="txt">After landing in London, Harry telephoned Young. Controlling his emotions, Harry described his mental health problems. Unable to cope with the stress, he told Young it would be best to make a public statement and return immediately to Canada. Young urged Harry not to annoy the Queen. She expected to see him at Sandringham after the various options had been considered. That would happen within one week.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet the following morning, 7th January, the <em>Sun</em> published Harry’s emailed proposals of giving up a life of public service. Harry was incandescent. Charles, he was sure, had leaked his email to sabotage the negotiations. Nothing, he raged to Meghan, had changed in six years. It was just the Palace’s latest smear of ‘leaking and planting of stories against me and my wife’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-103" id="en0-103" role="doc-noteref">103</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Prompted by the leak, Harry emailed his proposals to Charles on 8th January 2020. At the same time, he and Meghan issued a public statement that they would be ‘stepping back’ as full-time senior royals. In future, they would split their time between Britain and North America <span id="page_69"/>‘to carve out a progressive new role within the institution’. The public challenge to the Royal Family was dubbed ‘Megxit’.</p>
<p class="txt">On the same day, the three private secretaries met in Alderton’s office in Clarence House with an official from the Cabinet Office to discuss the Sussexes’ fate. They planned to wait for Meghan to return to her son in Canada before inviting Harry to Sandringham. The three knew that the Queen had some sympathy for Charles’s second son. Her own father had faced the same predicament, as had her sister Margaret. The family had never fully considered the needs of the ‘spare’. She wanted to accommodate the Sussexes, as long as they didn’t try to have it both ways. But she was not prepared to allow them – especially Meghan – to earn money while retaining their royal status. Exploiting the Crown for commercial enrichment was unacceptable. There could be no compromise, the Queen insisted. The three private secretaries understood that. Meghan did not. Harry was too consumed by rage to grasp one truth: what many saw as Meghan’s betrayal of the Royal Family was matched by his own wish to destabilise it.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry understood that Meghan planned to exploit the Royal Family label. The foundations of Meghan’s monetisation of the monarchy had been already laid by her Los Angeles business advisors. They had registered in Delaware a slew of domestic items – pens to clothing – to be sold under the Sussex Royal logo. In their statement, the Sussexes said they planned to ‘work to become financially independent’.</p>
<p class="txt">On 11th January, Edward Young sent Harry a draft proposal, written by Simon Case, with the five options for the arrangements for his future life. The options ranged from carrying on as working royals to the full severance as representatives of the Royal Family with the loss of security. This, option five, was not acceptable to the Sussexes. Meghan encouraged Harry’s conviction that he could deliver her wishes during the summit negotiations in Sandringham. With that, she returned to Vancouver but intended to join the summit over Zoom on her return. <span id="page_70"/>Just before Harry entered Sandringham’s Long Library on 13th January, Young announced that Meghan would not be allowed to participate. No one trusted Meghan not to record and monetise the conversation in the future. Subsequently, Meghan denounced her exclusion – ‘as a mom and a mother’ – as disgracefully misogynistic.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-104" id="en0-104" role="doc-noteref">104</a></sup> But the Queen, who was present, was a mother and none of the other royal spouses attended the meeting. And it’s a truth universally acknowledged that families owe each other loyalty. Meghan’s fractured relationships with her own family and ex-husband showed that neither she nor Harry had considered the circumstances beyond their self-interest. ‘I want a family, not an institution,’ Harry later said, sadly not understanding the ramifications of his actions.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-105" id="en0-105" role="doc-noteref">105</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Some recall Harry’s meeting in Sandringham with Charles, William, the Queen and their private secretaries as tense but sober. By contrast, Harry, commenting on the last time he would sit around a table with his family, regarded them all as ‘cold’ and William as a ‘rolling catastrophe’. Fearful of Meghan’s popularity, Harry would say that his family were terrified of the Sussexes. ‘It was terrible,’ Harry said, ‘to have my brother scream and shout at me, and my father say things that simply weren’t true and my grandmother quietly sit there and sort of take it all in.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-106" id="en0-106" role="doc-noteref">106</a></sup> Harry conveniently blamed Charles and William rather than the Queen for the outcome.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s portrayal of the Queen as a sweet but powerless puppet operating at the mercy of darker, superior forces, obeying orders from courtiers and her family, exposed his misunderstanding of reality. Harry couldn’t imagine that the Queen was horrified by his behaviour. She hated confrontation and was aware that marriage had changed him for the worse. Although his grandmother undoubtedly cherished their close relationship, she cared more about her family as a whole – and the monarchy. Harry, she realised, was beyond reason. He would only listen to Meghan. ‘You’re either in or you’re out,’ the Queen declared.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_71"/>But Harry was right that the Queen no longer wanted to be at the centre of arguments. On Charles’s orders, she had sacrificed her long-serving private secretary Christopher Geidt, an invaluable advisor. In the aftermath, she preferred not to take some decisions. They were delegated to Charles and William.</p>
<p class="txt">At the end of ninety minutes, Young distributed a draft of the statement the Palace would be publishing. Option five was the outcome. Ordering Harry to give up all his appointments and his HRH title, the Prince was told that neither he nor Meghan could use their royal titles to earn money.</p>
<p class="txt">The public statement, approved by the Queen, did leave the door open, though. While the Sussexes would ‘always be much-loved members of my family’ the Queen publicly acknowledged, ‘I recognise the challenges they have experienced as a result of intense scrutiny over the last two years and support their wish for a more independent life.’ She hoped ‘they would start building a happy and peaceful life’. In return, Harry pledged that the Sussexes would always remain loyal servants but he left his family unable to understand why the Queen had ruled out the compromise he wanted.</p>
<p class="txt">For Harry, a defining moment came as he was driven from Sandringham through the flat Norfolk countryside back to London. Kensington Palace, Harry heard on the radio, had responded to a newspaper report that Harry and Meghan were leaving Britain because William had bullied the Sussexes. Kensington Palace’s rebuttal described the newspaper’s accusation as ‘false and offensive’. To Harry’s fury, the statement was issued in both his and William’s names. ‘I couldn’t believe it,’ Harry later said. ‘No one had asked my permission to put my name to a statement like that.’ He telephoned Meghan. ‘She burst into floods of tears because they were happy to lie to protect my brother, yet for three years they were never willing to tell the truth to protect us.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-107" id="en0-107" role="doc-noteref">107</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry blamed William for assuming the responsibility of protecting <span id="page_72"/>the ‘institution’. Some insiders agreed that William dictated the terms of banishment. Primogeniture, they said, had poisoned the brothers’ relationship. Encouraged by Kate, William wanted everything down to the last 5 per cent. Rather than giving Harry £3 million a year and telling him to be obediently quiet, the Prince was denied money, support and permanent protection. Brotherly spite, Harry believed, was responsible for stripping him of his military commands, which had been the rock of his life. ‘William looked as if he planned to murder me,’ Harry wrote. Anyone defending the institution, hated by himself and Meghan, was an enemy. He and Meghan cared only about ‘staying alive’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-108" id="en0-108" role="doc-noteref">108</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan believed that it was a critical moment: ‘Suddenly what clicked in my head was “It’s never going to stop”.’ Harry agreed, explaining later: ‘So there was no other option at this point. I said, “We need to get out of here.”’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-109" id="en0-109" role="doc-noteref">109</a></sup> In truth, they had decided to leave Britain more than one year earlier.</p>
<p class="txt">The naivety of Edward Young and the other courtiers emerged on the eve of Harry’s return to Canada. At the Palace’s request, Boris Johnson, the prime minister, was asked to persuade Harry to reconsider his proposed exile. Meeting Harry in east London, Johnson realised before the end of their twenty-minute conversation that he was immersed in ‘a ridiculous business . . . when they made me try to persuade Harry to stay. Kind of manly pep talk. Totally hopeless.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-110" id="en0-110" role="doc-noteref">110</a></sup> No politician could undo what had been plotted for two years. Against an agent of destruction, the failure of imagination among the Windsors and their officials was carelessly inflicting lasting damage on the monarchy itself. Without any obvious resolution to the Sussexes’ insurrection, no one anticipated how the melodrama could be steered away from a tragic showdown.</p>
<p class="txt">Back on the remote Vancouver Island, Harry and Meghan grappled with the reality of isolation. His family, Harry concluded, had decided to make the Sussexes irrelevant. The summit was ‘just for show’. Harry could not accept that Young had simply obeyed the Queen’s orders.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-111" id="en0-111" role="doc-noteref">111</a></sup> <span id="page_73"/>Only weeks later did the former soldier finally realise that he had got the bullet. ‘He was once the Queen’s grandson,’ one observer noted. ‘Now he’s his wife’s husband. That is his tragedy. It’s also hers.’ Harry never understood how his fate had evolved to lead him to this very point.</p>
<p class="txt">The public’s reaction to ‘Megxit’ was divided. Some were outraged by the Sussexes’ ingratitude and self-destruction after being universally welcomed on their wedding day. A substantial minority were convinced that the Sussexes were the victims of the merciless white Royal Family. ‘Black Britons know why Meghan wants out,’ wrote Afua Hirsch in the <em>New York Times</em>. ‘It’s the racism.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-112" id="en0-112" role="doc-noteref">112</a></sup> That opinion, Meghan and Harry believed, justified their next steps.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>