<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 9</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct9" role="heading"><span id="page_74"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct9">CHAPTER 9</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Freedom</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Heathrow’s Windsor Lounge is a sanctuary for the rich and famous. For about £3,000, an airline passenger can buy privacy and supreme comfort before being driven personally to the aircraft’s steps. Undoubtedly, the building has been a watershed for many lives and none more than Prince Harry’s as he waited for his return flight to Vancouver in January 2020.</p>
<p class="txt">In the hours since the battle in Sandringham, Meghan had hastened to confirm their commercial agreements. Her business manager and agent in Los Angeles assured her that a contract with Netflix was certain. Filming could start as soon as they arrived in California. Oprah Winfrey was eagerly waiting. Meghan also encouraged Harry to see that monetising his anger was the best cure. Everything he said would change their lives for the better because he was right. Betrayal, she knew, was a good story, and evidently best told on TV and as an autobiography.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan arranged for Jennifer Rudolph Walsh at William Morris Endeavor to be confirmed as Harry’s literary agent. Promoting herself as one of America’s most successful agents with links to Oprah Winfrey and other women celebrities, the steely Walsh acknowledged Harry’s promise to deliver a brutal exposé of his life within the Royal Family. The Prince never considered his hypocrisy.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It’s amazing what people will do when offered a huge amount of <span id="page_75"/>money,’ Harry said about Thomas Markle accepting $1,500 to stage paparazzi photographs before Meghan’s wedding.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-113" id="en0-113" role="doc-noteref">113</a></sup> Meghan’s mother Doria joined the public lynching: ‘I was stunned Tom would be part of this circus, that he would capitalise.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-114" id="en0-114" role="doc-noteref">114</a></sup> Harry had also damned Thomas Markle for selling interviews about his daughter, yet he was about to do exactly the same for considerably more money. Harry knew exactly what he was doing – it was no different from Diana in her many interviews. He was aiming to damage the Royal Family as much as possible. On Harry’s behalf, Walsh pitched a three-book deal. America’s biggest publishers were told that Harry would need a ghostwriter.</p>
<p class="txt">Similarly, while Meghan complained that her father gave TV and magazine interviews despite being told not to speak, she too was about to give interviews to <em>Vogue</em>, <em>People</em> magazine, Oprah Winfrey and Netflix.</p>
<p class="txt">All Meghan’s planning since her marriage was bearing fruit. She was well advanced in the process of recruiting a director for Archewell, her Californian commercial organisation dedicated to ‘illuminating, thought-provoking and diverse narratives that underscore our common humanity and celebrate community’. Their later protestations of arriving penniless in America were inaccurate.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-115" id="en0-115" role="doc-noteref">115</a></sup> Not only had Harry inherited over £10 million from his mother and grandmother and Meghan had saved about $2 million, their agents had also promised multi-million-dollar advances.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet secluded on Vancouver Island, Harry’s indecisiveness delayed the couple’s next step.Harry feared making the final break to Los Angeles. All his promises at Sandringham about working loyally for the Crown while living in Canada and not financially exploiting his royal status would be shown as worthless.</p>
<p class="txt">But first they would return to London on 5th March to stage a Hollywood-style farewell. Astutely, Meghan choreographed photo opportunities in the City, while Harry made an emotional farewell to the Royal Marines at the Royal Albert Hall. Jointly, they made a final <span id="page_76"/>tense appearance with the unfriendly Cambridges at the Royal Family’s Commonwealth Day Service in Westminster Abbey. The Royal Family’s obvious disdain for the exiles set the scene that Omid Scobie witnessed at Buckingham Palace. ‘It didn’t have to be this way,’ she told their authorised biographer.</p>
<p class="txt">To ensure that her message was publicised to her fans, she told a ‘friend’ – a publicist – to deliver her parting words to the <em>Daily Mail</em>: ‘I gave up my entire life for this family. I was willing to do whatever it takes, but here we are. It’s very sad.’ In words that sound accompanied by violins, her curated elegy appealed to her supporters, including ITV’s Tom Bradby. Obligingly, the journalist went on to criticise the ‘racist’ Royal Family: ‘Few meaningful attempts were made by anyone to heal the wounds.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-116" id="en0-116" role="doc-noteref">116</a></sup> Others were outraged by the actress’s dishonesty. To them, she had sacrificed nothing and gained invaluable status. Marriage had transformed an unemployed, virtually unknown actress into a global celebrity. After exploiting the Royal Family for three years, she had become a master creator of smokescreens. Even the <em>New York Times</em> endorsed her contrived lament. The Sussexes, the newspaper pronounced, had left London for ‘an uncertain life as semi-royals’ in ‘a distant frontier outpost’.</p>
<p class="txt">Soon after their return to Vancouver Island – just as his Palace staff had forewarned Harry – the Canadian government announced that the 24-hour taxpayer-funded police protection around their remote home would be withdrawn. ‘Vipers,’ Harry complained, publicising his fear about not being ‘able to protect my son’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-117" id="en0-117" role="doc-noteref">117</a></sup> Harry was also reminded by the Palace that the deadline to cease being a working royal was 31st March. To comply, the SussexRoyal Instagram account should be immediately closed. One other message sealed his fate.</p>
<p class="txt">In March, Jennifer Rudolph Walsh advised Harry that Penguin Random House in New York was likely to make the best bid for his autobiography. If three bestselling books were delivered, the Sussexes <span id="page_77"/>could earn in excess of $20 million. Harry’s first book would be guaranteed about $3 million. The contract would not be signed for some time but he needed to start work. They should resettle in California as soon as possible.</p>
<p class="txt">Always fearful of lacking sufficient money but also aware that her celebrity should now be more fruitful than the kind of freebies she had extracted from her lifestyle blog The Tig, Meghan sought the loan of a suitable home in Los Angeles and a free private jet to take all their possessions from Vancouver. She relied on Keleigh Thomas Morgan. The publicist didn’t understand Britain or the Royal Family, but specialised in Hollywood celebrity. The two agreed that Meghan should appeal for help as the target of the Royal Family’s racism. Their pleas were answered by Tyler Perry, a high-profile black film producer. On 14th March, shortly before American air space was restricted by the Covid crisis, the Sussexes loaded all their possessions on to Perry’s private jet and flew to Los Angeles. The countdown to pocketing millions of dollars from their royal lives began on that flight.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Good morning,’ said Harry after pressing ‘video’ on his mobile phone. ‘It’s 6am on 14th March and we are on the Freedom Flight. We are leaving Canada and we are headed to Los Angeles.’ He added a lament about escaping the ‘level of hate that is being stirred up in the last three years, particularly against my wife and my son’.</p>
<p class="txt">The melodramatic statement had been suggested by their Los Angeles agent. Netflix, he said, would pay more if they delivered hours of private videos shot in their most intimate moments. Meghan understood perfectly. She had been collecting that material since she met Harry, not least when he proposed to her.</p>
<p class="txt">For Harry, it was different. He was escaping what he later called ‘the constant harassment (online and off), intimidation and abuse that my wife and I have suffered at the hands of the tabloids’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-118" id="en0-118" role="doc-noteref">118</a></sup> He didn’t like being the object of the media, he would tell a judge. He wanted privacy <span id="page_78"/>outside the spotlight. As he got off the plane in sunny California, Harry began to feel that he was now beyond anyone’s control. He had dumped his family, his constitutional obligations, the need for self-restraint, the care for self-control and the past.</p>
<p class="txt">By the end of the day, the Sussexes were settling into Tyler Perry’s eight-bedroom home in Beverly Ridge set in twenty-two acres. ‘For many reasons,’ said Meghan, ‘I’m glad to be home.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-119" id="en0-119" role="doc-noteref">119</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s return was welcomed by her supporters – a coalition of feminists, Democrats, liberals and anti-monarchists. Peggy Drexler, a research psychologist sympathetic to Meghan, typified those who accepted Meghan’s claim that what she demanded most was total privacy: ‘They no longer wished to be trailed by the media, obsessed over, watched. Harry didn’t want to be constantly reminded of his mother’s tragic death every time he and Meghan were photographed; Meghan didn’t want to be tabloid fodder for what she wore, how she did her hair, where she was from or how much she did or didn’t enjoy the spotlight. They wanted to reach financial independence, live as regular people, raise their children in private.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-120" id="en0-120" role="doc-noteref">120</a></sup> Like many sympathisers, Drexler was destined to be surprised.</p>
<p class="txt">Unconcerned about Harry’s promises in Sandringham not to financially exploit his family, Meghan ordered Archewell to be rebranded sussex.com with the coat of arms granted to her by the Queen. Their website was headed ‘The Office of Prince Harry and Meghan. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex.’ Harry would claim that Sussex was their family name, but he knew that was untrue – Archie’s birth certificate accurately recorded their family surname as Mountbatten-Windsor.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-121" id="en0-121" role="doc-noteref">121</a></sup> Archewell would need to raise $100 million to rank as an effective Hollywood foundation.</p>
<p class="txt">In London, Princess Anne predicted to a friend exactly what would follow. Meghan, she said, was gripped by ‘red carpet fever’. Nothing, it seemed, would deter her search for the spotlight.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_79"/>Status was vital to the Sussexes. Harry would have expected a home fit for a prince. An agent offered them paradise in Montecito, near Santa Barbara and ninety miles north of Los Angeles. Known as the American Riviera because a mountain range cascades down to golden sands, Montecito was paradise for about 10,000 people seeking discretion inside plots surrounded by cypresses and cacti. The mix of actors, Hollywood producers, industrialists and TV celebrities was serviced by luxury shops, exorbitantly priced restaurants, elite beach clubs and hotels united by a common denominator: anyone asking the price couldn’t afford it. Detractors visiting from Britain offered another impression: ‘It’s Dorking with cacti cursed by a noisy trainline slicing through the middle.’</p>
<p class="txt">Set in 7.4 acres, the 18,000 square feet, nine-bedroom and fourteen-bathroom Mediterranean-style mansion on Rockbridge Road included a gym, tennis court, swimming pool, five-car garage and a two-bedroomed guest house. The Russian owner’s fire sale price of $14.65 million (£11 million), reduced from $34 million, was a bargain. The Sussexes paid Sergey Grishin $5 million cash and raised a $9.5 million mortgage, an arrangement that undermined Harry’s later assertion to Oprah Winfrey that the family arrived ‘without any money’ because his father ‘cut me off financially’. But to finance their staff, bodyguards and general living expenses, they would need an income of at least $3 million a year.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan assumed that her title and mansion automatically enrolled her into California’s royalty. Like all her neighbours, she would naturally be a philanthropist and receive invitations to the big-ticket charity functions. Archie would go to a nursery majoring in emotional literacy, mindfulness and sustainability.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-122" id="en0-122" role="doc-noteref">122</a></sup> Harry would be welcomed at the Santa Barbara Polo and Racquet Club and train alongside his new Argentinian friend Nacho Figueras on a friendly billionaire’s polo pitch.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet their ‘journey to freedom’ took an unprecedented turn when, on the first morning after they moved into their new Montecito home, <span id="page_80"/>Meghan suffered a miscarriage. Harry publicly asserted that the cause was the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s publication of Meghan’s letter to her father,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-123" id="en0-123" role="doc-noteref">123</a></sup> and in fact she had subsequently taken legal action against them, accusing the newspaper of misuse of private information and infringement of copyright. Yet however sad the reality of losing a child, Harry’s is a fairly wild accusation given that about 20 per cent of pregnancies end in miscarriages and, perhaps of more relevance, Harry did not reveal that Meghan suffered from pre-eclampsia, a complication during her first pregnancy that causes high blood pressure and can lead to serious complications.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-124" id="en0-124" role="doc-noteref">124</a></sup> And, moreover, at the time of the miscarriage, Meghan anticipated outright victory in her litigation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-125" id="en0-125" role="doc-noteref">125</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Despite the splendour and the sunshine, Harry felt lonely in his mansion. After excluding some of his closest friends from his wedding dinner, there were few people he could call in Britain. Instead, he called Buckingham Palace. He wanted to speak to the Queen. Demanding apologies and money, the conversations became fractious. Insiders reported that Harry shouted and even swore. Irritated by Harry’s unreasonableness, the Queen suggested that Harry speak only with his father. In turn, Charles was frequently ‘unavailable’.</p>
<p class="txt">Any loneliness in California was mitigated by the urgency of settling into their new home. To work on his book and establish Archewell, the couple needed staff and a chief executive. The Sussexes persuaded James Holt, formerly employed in Kensington Palace for the Sussexes, to relocate to California. Previously, Holt had been a communications director for the Liberal Democrats and a special advisor to the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg. His loyalty to the Sussexes was unquestionable.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Any doubts Harry may have harboured about his tell-all auto-biography evaporated due to his awareness that Charles had secretly completed his own book. His source was the Spencer family. Soon <span id="page_81"/>after Diana had given her interview to BBC TV’s <em>Panorama</em> in 1995, Charles resumed work on a manuscript he had started in the aftermath of Andrew Morton’s revelatory bestseller <em>Diana: Her True Story</em>, written with the Princess’s secret help in 1992. Sparing no feelings, Charles’s heartfelt criticism of his parents and his anger towards Diana was pure retaliation and therapeutic. He allowed Robert Fellowes, the Queen’s former private secretary, to read the completed manuscript before it was placed in a safe for a future generation. It is unlikely that Charles’s subsequent staff were made aware of the document. Harry’s book would counter that unknown bombshell.</p>
<p class="txt">Random House’s senior editor Ben Greenberg was tasked with finding a ghostwriter for Harry. From the outset, Meghan was involved in the selection. Those considered included award-winning writer Buzz Bissinger but finally 56-year-old John Moehringer was selected. The former <em>New York Times</em> journalist known as J.R. Moehringer had ghostwritten Andre Agassi’s prize-winning autobiography <em>Open</em>. Ghostwriting, Moehringer believed, was a ‘vital public service’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-126" id="en0-126" role="doc-noteref">126</a></sup> Moehringer was also known for his autobiographical memoir <em>The Tender Bar</em>, describing life with his mother after she fled a violent relationship with his father when he was seven months old. A film based on the book had been directed by George Clooney.</p>
<p class="txt">Moehringer’s method and style was evident from <em>The Tender Bar</em>. The Chandleresque narrative flowed with the help of a flood of dramatic, unspoken thoughts. Channelled through Moehringer’s keyboard, the indiscriminate recollections of a vengeful prince would become a gripping narrative. Some would say that, considering the many similarities between <em>The Tender Bar</em> and Harry’s book, Moehringer transferred his own life into the Prince’s autobiography. Coincidentally, Shannon Welch, an editor at Penguin Random House, was Moehringer’s wife. The project would remain secret until March 2021, even within the publisher’s headquarters.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_82"/>Covid restrictions prevented Harry, Moehringer and Meghan meeting personally. Introducing each other over Zoom, Moehringer recollected that they hit it off immediately.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-127" id="en0-127" role="doc-noteref">127</a></sup> Both men were ‘incredibly sensitive, tetchy and preoccupied by their feelings’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-128" id="en0-128" role="doc-noteref">128</a></sup> and they bonded.</p>
<p class="txt">Moehringer’s brief, set by the editors in New York, was to ‘unflinchingly chronicle an intimate and honest human experience’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-129" id="en0-129" role="doc-noteref">129</a></sup> Encouraged by Moehringer, Harry didn’t hesitate to use his ghostwriter as his therapist. Harry spoke about his wish to rebut ‘every lie published about me’ and to extract endless retractions from his enemies. In his own words, Harry was a man more sinned against than sinning, and his paranoia was matched by Meghan’s appetite for attention. Harry, she assured Moehringer, would be unflinchingly candid. No amount of self-exposure, she indicated, was off limits so long as the casualties – that was, their enemies – were less than incidental.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-130" id="en0-130" role="doc-noteref">130</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In reality, Harry also wanted the spotlight – but on his terms. He spoke about loyalty but to many he was selling his soul and settling scores. Betraying his family appeared to give him satisfaction, rewarded not least by millions of dollars. Clearly envious that William was always the centre of attention, this move would focus the media more on Harry – and on him alone – partly to encourage public recognition that William was ‘jealous’ of his freedom in California.</p>
<p class="txt">Listening to Harry, Moehringer realised the Prince wanted not only to wage a personal vendetta but also to settle scores with Kate, Camilla, Charles and even the Queen. All of them, Harry complained, were out to get him. And yet, in writing his book, he would be invading <em>their</em> privacy, retelling intimate conversations, knowing that his family could not answer back. This was not just ‘a wounded lad’ pouring out his random thoughts, but clearly a man motivated by spite and determined to cause harm – and spread damage on a massive scale.</p>
<p class="txt">In their early conversations, Harry complained to Moehringer about media intrusion. Moehringer’s text would feed the same media which <span id="page_83"/>Harry so desperately loathed – and the very media he blamed for killing his mother. His pain became his punchlines. ‘I fully accept that writing a book is feeding the beast,’ Harry would later admit.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-131" id="en0-131" role="doc-noteref">131</a></sup> As Harry told his story in those early sessions, Moehringer might have wondered whether Harry was unable to control his emotions or understand what he was saying. But Moehringer’s commissioning editor knew the financial value of Harry’s outpourings.</p>
<p class="txt">During their early intensive Zoom discussions, Moehringer noted Harry’s sense of isolation. He sympathised with his gripe about being ‘unappreciated’, ‘a bit unloved’ and ‘a non-person within my own family . . . relegated to the hinterlands’. Those simple sentiments were easy to translate. Picking up on his self-pity, Harry’s descriptions of excess drinking, drug-taking and riotous nightclubbing with named friends – especially his close friends Guy Pelly, Tommy Inskip and other Etonians – were easy to encapsulate in Harry’s confession that ‘perhaps I was the one with brain damage’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-132" id="en0-132" role="doc-noteref">132</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Moehringer described how the book would give Harry an identity. Moehringer believed in deep emotions – not just those stemming from Harry’s relationship with Charles and William, but around losing his mother when young. Moehringer had also lost his mother. ‘You’re the air in someone else’s trumpet,’ Moehringer said about the art of ghostwriting, capturing his subject’s voice.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-133" id="en0-133" role="doc-noteref">133</a></sup> That interpretation appealed to Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">The editors in New York began to suspect that Harry did not realise how Moehringer’s vision of the book was fundamentally different from his own. Harry’s purpose was to justify his decision to leave his family and to expose the British media as the criminals responsible for his mother’s murder and a cause of his misery. Moehringer’s concept, agreed by his editor in New York, was to portray Harry as a bird trapped in a cage, a boy struggling to conquer his personal demons amid a dysfunctional family. Hearing from both sides about their <span id="page_84"/>remote conversations, one New York editor would come to believe that neither man properly understood the other. Harry expected total obedience from a paid employee. Other than when he had been in the army, he was unaccustomed to anyone failing to do what he expected. But Moehringer was his own man, unwilling to compromise on pursuing what he conceived the story to be. Physically separated from Harry, the writer couldn’t walk along the beach with the Prince, chewing the cud and properly grasping the excesses and constraints of growing up as an heir to the British throne.</p>
<p class="txt">During those early stages, the editors in Manhattan believed that the differences would get ironed out. Or not, and that didn’t matter. Penguin Random House had landed a big fish and Moehringer would deliver a blockbuster script. He was paid to look for sensational headlines, not to protect Harry from self-destruction.</p>
<p class="txt">And Harry was seemingly fixated by his penis. The royal genitalia, the writer knew, would grab readers’ attention. The word ‘penis’ would be mentioned eight times in the published book and ‘todger’ – Harry’s frozen penis – six times. Frostbitten during a trip in the Arctic, Harry delivered the priceless detail that the cure – Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream – prompted his ‘memory’ that Diana used the same cream on her lips: ‘The moment I opened it, the smell transported me through time.’ In a subsequent trip to the Antarctic, he was given ‘a bespoke cock cushion’ to protect himself.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-134" id="en0-134" role="doc-noteref">134</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry was also forthcoming about the loss of his virginity in 2001 at the age of sixteen on a ‘grassy field’ behind the Vine Tree Inn in Norton, Wiltshire. In Moehringer’s prose, Harry’s simple description of sex with a local nineteen-year-old stable girl he had known for years was translated as ‘an older woman’ who treated him ‘like a young stallion’ during a ‘five minutes wham-bam’. She then ‘smacked my rump and sent me off to graze’. Easily identified by Harry’s friends at the time, forty-year-old Sasha Walpole would be embarrassed by the revelation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-135" id="en0-135" role="doc-noteref">135</a></sup> <span id="page_85"/>But Harry did not seemingly consider it important that Walpole might resent being outed after twenty-one years despite saying, ‘Everyone has a right to privacy,’ on BBC TV in 2016.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was similarly indiscreet about Pat, a matron at Ludgrove, his prep school. To win laughs from his friends, Harry led the torment of the woman who suffered chronic pain as she slowly struggled down the school’s stairs. In Moehringer’s manuscript, Harry sought to ‘make the miserable Pat bust a gut’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-136" id="en0-136" role="doc-noteref">136</a></sup> the cruelty to a defenceless woman in this instance apparently not troubling to Harry at all.</p>
<p class="txt">Raw hatred for Charles’s wife Camilla clearly influenced Harry’s animosity towards his father. He called Camilla ‘a wicked stepmother’ and ‘dangerous’. In the years previously, he had declared that he ‘loved her to bits’, although he hoped that Charles would not marry her despite her making his father ‘happy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-137" id="en0-137" role="doc-noteref">137</a></sup> Underlying his ire was a conviction that without Camilla, Diana would still be alive and married to Charles. Misunderstanding both his mother and her marriage, he poured out to Moehringer his passion to punish Camilla and Charles for Diana’s death. And it had all started, he mistakenly pinpointed, in the summer of 1996 after Charles employed the accomplished publicist Mark Bolland to improve Camilla’s image.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-138" id="en0-138" role="doc-noteref">138</a></sup> Over the following years, Harry protested, Camilla was ‘sacrificing’ him on ‘her personal PR altar’ to develop her ‘campaign directed towards marriage and, with time, the Crown’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-139" id="en0-139" role="doc-noteref">139</a></sup> Reading those outpourings, the New York editors seemingly did not suggest to Moehringer that he question Harry about his double standards: he hated criticism of Meghan but wilfully attacked Charles, Camilla, Kate and William.</p>
<p class="txt">One bombshell followed after another. The book’s editors were delighted by Harry’s confessions about taking drugs. Starting with cannabis at Eton, he admitted taking a series of increasingly dangerous substances, including cocaine, ketamine, magic mushrooms, ayahuasca and Nepalese hashish Temple Balls. In the past, Harry had accused the <span id="page_86"/>media of reporting lies about his drug habits. Now he admitted that the newspapers had reported the truth. Teasing the details out of Harry was not a problem. The Prince was keen to reveal that ‘marijuana really did help me’; cocaine ‘did nothing’ except make him feel part of a group; and after swallowing magic mushrooms at a party in 2016 in the home of friends of the actress Courteney Cox, he hallucinated in a bathroom, imagining a pedal bin as a human. He was seeking relief, he said, from ‘chaos’, grief and the trauma of losing his mother. ‘For me, they cleared the windscreen, the removal of life’s filters . . . I would say it was one of the fundamental parts of my life that changed me and helped me with the traumas and the pains of the past.’</p>
<p class="txt">His editors evidently did not caution Harry that ‘bragging and encouraging illegal drug use’ and detailing his mental illness could be ridiculed. No one in New York questioned whether his petulance undermined the monarchy and even himself as a serious personality. Not least because they were republicans focused on a publishing sensation. Penguin Random House had bought a sure-fire global blockbuster selling secrets for millions of dollars: sex, drugs and astonishing revelations about the Royal Family.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>