<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 10</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct10" role="heading"><span id="page_87"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct10">CHAPTER 10</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Netflix</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">The Sussexes’ ducks were falling into a row.</p>
<p class="txt">At the height of the Covid lockdown, the streaming giant Netflix’s income soared as millions of people were confined to their homes and bought subscriptions. Hungry for new programmes, Brandon Riegg, Netflix’s head of content, and his successor Ted Sarandos (and Montecito neighbour), judged the Sussexes’ offer to tell all in an eponymous documentary to be a certain hit. The Sussexes were guaranteed to attract record audiences. To secure the deal, Sarandos agreed that the Sussexes would be contracted to make five series over five years. The surprise was Harry’s readiness to partner with Netflix, the producer of <em>The Crown</em>, the sensational TV series which unashamedly distorted the truth about the Royal Family – a version of his own family story that Harry said he preferred to his own.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-140" id="en0-140" role="doc-noteref">140</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Netflix would not get an exclusive for the first blockbuster series, though. Meghan insisted on honouring the agreement she had made in London to first appear on Oprah Winfrey’s show. With one year between the Oprah Winfrey interview and Netflix series, there would be ample new material. As rumours spread that the Netflix deal could be worth $100 million, some were dismayed. ‘They’re star fuckers,’ <span id="page_88"/>moaned a disgruntled programme maker who failed to secure a Netflix contract during that flush era.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-141" id="en0-141" role="doc-noteref">141</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Brand Meghan was being forged. The Duchess, a warrior for social justice, slotted together the jigsaw: compassion, victimhood, racism, feminism, motherhood and truth. Each piece illustrated Meghan’s ‘suffering’ – and her mission.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-142" id="en0-142" role="doc-noteref">142</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the run-up to the 2020 presidential election, the Sussexes were keen to play a part. With Donald Trump’s low poll ratings suggesting defeat, both openly supported Joe Biden against Trump. In particular, they highlighted the Biden administration’s removal of gender identity from official statements. Making the terms mother, father, daughter and brother unacceptable was part of Biden’s policy to supersede biological sex. By sharing those opinions the Sussexes were welcomed by the wealthy liberal elite – and rewarded by Meghan’s well-publicised virtual meeting with Gavin Newsom, California’s Democrat governor.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-143" id="en0-143" role="doc-noteref">143</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Celebrating their inclusion on the list of <em>Time</em> magazine’s 100 most influential people on the planet, the couple broadcast to Americans from their Montecito garden. Meghan urged her audience to ‘build communities of compassion’ and spoke about ‘the most important election of our lifetime’. In his own clear anti-Trump appeal, Harry was emphatic: ‘As we approach this November, it’s vital we reject hate speech, misinformation and online negativity.’</p>
<p class="txt">On reflection, Harry’s snubbing of Ivanka Trump during her visit to Buckingham Palace with her father in December 2019 had been clearly inspired by Meghan. Her apparent refusal to appear with Harry at the state dinner in Buckingham Palace for Trump irritated the president. ‘I am not a fan of hers,’ said Trump about Meghan. ‘I wish a lot of luck to Harry because he’s going to need it.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-144" id="en0-144" role="doc-noteref">144</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt"><span id="page_89"/>Ever since she wrote an article for <em>Elle</em> magazine in 2015, Meghan had spoken as the victim of racism. Although she provided no specific evidence of suffering any personal disadvantage during her life, she explained that after returning from Britain, she realised that America’s race conflict was ‘devastating’. She added, ‘It was so sad to see where our country was.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-145" id="en0-145" role="doc-noteref">145</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis on 25th May 2020 paradoxically provided a historic benchmark for Meghan. The Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement, Meghan said, was ‘a beautiful thing’. Across America, ‘the peaceful protests . . . people were actually owning their own role. It shifted from sadness to a feeling of absolute inspiration because I can see the tide is turning.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-146" id="en0-146" role="doc-noteref">146</a></sup> She adopted BLM’s arguments about white privilege and Harry echoed her opinions. Although its critics labelled the Black Lives Matter movement as one inspired by Marxism to foment social discontent, Harry shared her view about the white man’s guilt. Britain and its institutions, said Harry in an interview from Montecito, suffered from ‘endemic structural racism’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-147" id="en0-147" role="doc-noteref">147</a></sup> He criticised a ‘world created by white people for white people’. White society, he believed, produced ‘bias’ with an ‘effect on young people of colour’. White Britons, Harry said, needed to understand people ‘of a different coloured skin’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-148" id="en0-148" role="doc-noteref">148</a></sup> Influenced by Meghan’s experience, he added, ‘You know when you go into a shop with your children and you see only white dolls, do you even think: “That’s weird, there’s not a black doll there?” ’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-149" id="en0-149" role="doc-noteref">149</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes muted their overt criticism after Black Lives Matter supporters proposed that presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln be ‘cancelled’ because they had owned slaves. That was followed by BLM’s demand for hundreds of classic literature books to be banned as racist. But the seeds had been sown. As she pondered her appearance with Oprah, Meghan crafted her lines to present her experience of racism on the global platform and <span id="page_90"/>she finalised the appointments for her producers and a director for the Netflix programming she and Harry were intending to create.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet though their press release announcing the Netflix deal was loaded with rhetoric, Meghan lacked the necessary skills to produce a documentary series and to articulate her vision on a wider scale. The series, she said, would be ‘our love story’. Professionals who would later work with Meghan understood her limitations. Meghan had ‘this naïveté and hopefulness about what’s possible in terms of storytelling’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-150" id="en0-150" role="doc-noteref">150</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s limitations had also become apparent in <em>The Bench</em>, an illustrated children’s book she had written. Damned by critics as leaden, others would spot its stark similarity to <em>The Boy and the Bench</em>, a book published in 2018. Over the years, Meghan would often be accused of copying others. Her famous website, The Tig, had been unashamedly based on the success of established influencers. It was noted that she struggled to deliver original ideas.</p>
<p class="txt">Many actors have a common trait. Their talent is to look brilliant by masterfully delivering words composed by writers. Their weakness can be exposed by an inability to write their own scripts. Like most ambitious actors, Meghan could not admit to any flaws or mistaken judgements. Besides dogged persistence, her strength was self-belief. She now famously knew what she did and did not like, and what she would and wouldn’t put up with. It appeared that all the self-doubts she had harboured before being cast in <em>Suits</em> had disappeared once she was married. The fawning she had commanded at Kensington Palace – by simply imitating Harry – was richly deserved.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry watched from the sidelines as his wife selected the four producers for the series. He did not question why all four were women. Giona Jefferson, one producer, was a black American who described herself as ‘an accomplished interdisciplinary thinker and strategic decision-maker’.</p>
<p class="txt">Growing up in Hollywood, Meghan understood the importance of <span id="page_91"/>appointing the right director. Her final choice, Garrett Bradley, was the first black woman to win a director’s award at the Sundance Film Festival. Black American women, Bradley had said, were the focal point of her documentaries. ‘I think of myself as a facilitator,’ she explained. ‘How can their experiences open our eyes?’ Meghan was attracted by Bradley ‘trying to create a more just and transparent and loving world’. She also liked Bradley speaking about entering her subject’s ‘head space’ and promoting the ‘resilience of women’. Meghan shared the sentiment of Bradley’s homily: ‘Ultimately, what everybody needs in life in order to feel loved is to be understood, to feel heard.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-151" id="en0-151" role="doc-noteref">151</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Particularly appealing to Meghan was Bradley’s inclination to prioritise race, class and social justice. In turn, the Sussexes’ widely publicised attitude to racism would naturally have stoked Bradley’s excitement. By focusing on Meghan’s victimhood in Britain, the audience would be able to relate to the Sussexes’ experience.</p>
<p class="txt">Those thoughts aligned with Meghan’s own homily about ‘being kind to yourself’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-152" id="en0-152" role="doc-noteref">152</a></sup> Meghan was, however, either unaware or naive about Bradley’s description of her film-making technique: ‘It was really important for me not to go into the project with an agenda or even an opinion.’ As a purist documentary maker, Bradley hated disciplined filming. Expecting unlimited access to the Sussexes’ home, including their bedroom and bathroom, Bradley intended to explore the Sussexes’ intimate ‘space’. ‘My process,’ she explained, ‘is about listening to people and letting the images come to my mind; those images then become the script and then they perform them.’ Favouring long, lingering shoots, she would craft her documentary only after viewing hundreds of hours of constant filming.</p>
<p class="txt">Allowing Bradley’s cameras to roll without control to reveal the Sussexes’ ‘universal truths’ was precisely the opposite of Meghan’s plan. In Meghan’s mind, everything should be authentically controlled. In order to showcase her inspirational life without a hair out of place, <span id="page_92"/>Bradley’s cameras could not be allowed unscripted freedom. Especially not in her bedroom and bathroom.</p>
<p class="txt">Few realised that Meghan’s hairstylist and make-up artist needed over two hours every day before she could appear in public. At that time, no outsider could be allowed to witness her staring at the mirror unmade up.‘Spontaneous truths’ about ‘our love story’ had to be firmly scripted and then carefully edited. The mask could never slip.</p>
<p class="txt">Filming started in autumn 2020. Within weeks, Bradley was told to stop. All her videos would be viewed and ditched as ‘chaotic’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-153" id="en0-153" role="doc-noteref">153</a></sup> Meghan began searching for another woman she could trust. In a now familiar pattern, procrastination and indecision were followed by delays.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>