<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 11</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct11" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct11"><span id="page_93"/>CHAPTER 11</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>‘My Truth’</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Though still filled with confidence at the end of 2020, Harry and Meghan were preoccupied with their campaign against the tabloids. Their lawyer, David Sherborne, reported good progress. Harry’s claims against the <em>Mirror</em> and the <em>Sun</em> were heading towards a trial, and he predicted that Meghan would win her case against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>.</p>
<p class="txt">In the Sussexes’ bid to target the journalists responsible for intruding into their privacy and exploiting them ‘as currency for an economy of click-bait and distortion’, they accused Jason Knauf and other Palace employees of leaving Meghan ‘unprotected’ while being forced to endure silently ‘hundreds of thousands of inaccurate articles’. As honourable people, the Sussexes had been ‘completely pulled apart for no good reason’ other than to earn profits. The battle lines were drawn. The contest was between the Sussexes’ ‘truth’ and what others would call ‘irrefutable facts’.</p>
<p class="txt">The veracity of the Sussexes’ version of events in the Palace had been corroborated by the publication in August 2020 of Omid Scobie’s book <em>Finding Freedom</em>. To the Sussexes’ delight, Scobie laid out in the starkest terms how Meghan was the victim of sexist and racist Palace courtiers who snidely referred to ‘Harry’s showgirl’. Royal aides were described in Harry’s words as ‘vipers’; William was criticised for provoking a rift <span id="page_94"/>with Harry; Thomas Markle was portrayed as a bankrupt, unloving and deceitful father who deliberately failed to arrive at the wedding; and Kate was blamed for snubbing Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">In his book, Scobie thanked the Sussexes and ‘those closest to the couple’ for their help.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-154" id="en0-154" role="doc-noteref">154</a></sup> Since the book was written with that co-operation, few doubted that Scobie reflected the Sussexes’ beliefs. According to the Sussexes’ rules of privacy, media criticism of themselves was unacceptable. But many saw the hypocrisy that apparently they could assist Scobie to criticise the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">Scobie’s expressions of gratitude embarrassed the Sussexes. In her legal case against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> that concluded in 2021, Meghan denied helping Scobie. ‘They did not collaborate with the authors on the book,’ stated Jenny Afia, Meghan’s solicitor, ‘or give authority to anyone to speak to the authors on her behalf.’ Meghan herself described the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s allegations that she had helped Scobie as ‘false’, ‘fantastical’ and ‘a conspiracy theory’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-155" id="en0-155" role="doc-noteref">155</a></sup> She claimed not to know how much help the authors got from her staff<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-156" id="en0-156" role="doc-noteref">156</a></sup> and denied being given the opportunity to make changes or fact-check.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-157" id="en0-157" role="doc-noteref">157</a></sup> Meghan’s ‘truth’ was supported by Scobie’s own signed legal statement: ‘Any suggestion that the Duke and Duchess collaborated on the book is false.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-158" id="en0-158" role="doc-noteref">158</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Scobie must have known that wasn’t accurate. He had, after all, been briefed for two hours by Jason Knauf, who read from a detailed memorandum supplied by Meghan. Scobie had also, with Meghan’s approval, been introduced to her friends by the Palace publicist Sara Latham and Keleigh Thomas Morgan.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan also forcefully denied telling any American girlfriends about her letter to her father which featured in <em>People</em> magazine in 2019. ‘It was not me and had nothing to do with me,’ she said. But Meghan knew that she had told two girlfriends about the letter’s contents.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-159" id="en0-159" role="doc-noteref">159</a></sup> These inaccurate statements were a gamble. Ever since she had written her loosely accurate résumé of her career aged twenty-four to promote <span id="page_95"/>her career in Hollywood,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-160" id="en0-160" role="doc-noteref">160</a></sup> she had made incorrect assertions about her childhood, parents and career. But she would call it ‘my truth’.</p>
<p class="txt">To avoid disclosing her co-operation with Scobie and the text messages to her American girlfriends, Meghan’s lawyers hoped that they could persuade the judges that a trial was unnecessary. She owned the copyright to her own letter, they argued, and there was no public interest in denying her total privacy. She should be granted, claimed her lawyers, a summary judgement – punishment for Britain’s unaccountable media for printing ‘hundreds of thousands of inaccurate articles about her’, knowing they were ‘distorted, false, or invasive beyond reason’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-161" id="en0-161" role="doc-noteref">161</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Judges’ decisions in London’s High Court trials for privacy had become unpredictable. More so if a member of the Royal Family was the claimant. But Meghan’s lawyers were confident that English judges would side with the Royal Family against the tabloids.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-162" id="en0-162" role="doc-noteref">162</a></sup> Victory was certain, advised Keith Schilling’s firm, not least because of the Sussexes’ cast-iron denial of helping any journalist or magazine. Especially Scobie.</p>
<p class="txt">That certainty ought to have collapsed after four of Meghan’s aides in Kensington Palace offered to give evidence about Meghan’s conduct. In particular, Jason Knauf and Sara Latham said they knew about the background to the briefing of Scobie and how Meghan’s letter to her father was created with their help.Their irrefutable truth did not persuade Mark Warby, the trial judge. Being royal, declared the judge, did not make ‘one’ public property. Meghan’s relationship with her father was a private matter and all the evidence contradicting Meghan’s statement was worthless. Warby declared that Meghan had won her case without a trial. Meghan escaped scrutiny and the world was denied the truth.</p>
<p class="txt">In Montecito, the Sussexes celebrated. ‘We have all won,’ said Meghan. ‘You cannot take somebody’s privacy and exploit it,’ she added. ‘I share the victory with each of you – because we all deserve justice and the truth, and we all deserve better.’ Her treatment by the media, she said, was ‘illegal and dehumanising’. The public, she insisted, was entitled <span id="page_96"/>to ‘reliable, fact-checked, high-quality news’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-163" id="en0-163" role="doc-noteref">163</a></sup> Posing as a champion of media freedom, Meghan went on: ‘When power is enjoyed without responsibility, the trust we all place in this much-needed industry is degraded.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-164" id="en0-164" role="doc-noteref">164</a></sup> Harry’s self-confidence about defeating the tabloids soared, confirming his belief that British judges could be relied upon to find in his favour.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">In July 2021, Rick Genow, Meghan’s Beverly Hills lawyer, completed the registration of a slew of companies in California and Delaware for the Sussexes. Multiple registrations seemed likely to thwart any meaningful enquiries into the Sussexes’ finances as they embarked on a series of ventures. In anticipation of the Netflix series, book publications and other commercial ventures, Meghan chose meaningful names including, Peca Publishing, Orinoco Publishing, Cobblestone Lane, Baobab Holdings, Bridgement, Hampshire, Riversoul Productions, Cloverdale Inc and Nemawashi Holdings.</p>
<p class="txt">The money-spinner was the Netflix series. During her search for a new director, Meghan alighted on Liz Garbus. Aged fifty-one, Garbus had produced an anti-media documentary called <em>Fourth Estate</em> and was currently completing two documentaries for Apple TV about black actors’ achievements. Meghan had first met Garbus while pitching to Netflix an animated children’s series based on a character called <em>Pearl</em>, the historical story of a twelve-year-old girl travelling through time to meet important women. Megan Casey, Netflix’s director of original animation, described the Duchess’s project as, ‘an exciting tale that weaves together fantasy and history. Pearl focuses on a young girl who learns to step into her own power when she embarks on a heroic adventure and meets important women from history along the way.’</p>
<p class="txt">News reports of Meghan’s project prompted lawyers representing author Mel Elliott – who had written a strikingly similar series of three <span id="page_97"/>bestselling Pearl Power books between 2014 and 2016 – to write to Meghan in July 2021: ‘The similarities between your proposed animation series and my client’s work appear to be too many and too striking to be mere coincidence.’ Not having received a reply, her lawyers wrote again in February 2022. Again, there was no reply. The series was eventually cancelled in May 2022. The excuse issued by Netflix was that Meghan’s pitch failed to tell a visual story.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-165" id="en0-165" role="doc-noteref">165</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The good news was that Liz Garbus had agreed to make the Netflix series. Meghan proposed that beside their love story, the series would also feature the Sussexes’ fractured relationship with the Queen and her family, their hatred for the media and their departure from Britain. ‘Viewers’, Garbus would say, ‘came for the love story, or the hot gossip [and] they were able to stay for other provocative and important stuff, [such as] the history of colonialism.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-166" id="en0-166" role="doc-noteref">166</a></sup> In Meghan’s words, Garbus ‘connected the dots to larger historical issues’ including racism, Empire and how Britain’s monarchy was linked to white supremacy.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was by now apparently fully converted to Meghan’s gospel that the Royal Family was racist. His family’s prejudice, he believed, was shared by all the courtiers and especially the women assigned to help Meghan in Kensington Palace, and had fed the hostility that forced their flight to California. Naturally, the tabloids were the cheerleaders of their persecution, reflecting Britain’s supposed racism. The media, Meghan said, were stirring up hatred with lies ‘to find a way to destroy me’. The Sussexes’ response was to attack the Royal Family.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-167" id="en0-167" role="doc-noteref">167</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">That scenario was the foundation for the Sussexes’ discussions with the producers of the <em>Oprah with Meghan and Harry</em> television special, and with Oprah herself. Those who had smeared Meghan’s reputation in London about the pre-wedding arguments and her bullying the staff were in her sights for her first interview since leaving Britain. ‘Life is about telling stories, right?’ said Meghan. ‘Telling stories through a truthful lens.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-168" id="en0-168" role="doc-noteref">168</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_98"/>During their conversations, Oprah Winfrey’s team had no doubts about Meghan’s undisguised hatred of the Royal Family for denying her true destiny. The House of Windsor, she believed, was too small for her greatness. They inhabited a world that was crumbling, even dead, but not yet buried. Their discomfort would give her great pleasure.</p>
<p class="txt">The interview, Meghan knew, was a watershed. Appreciating the theatrical debut, her appearance with the American icon guaranteed her everlasting global celebrity. To make the Oprah Winfrey interview interesting to an international audience, she needed to create a narrative – a unique story – distinguished by sensational revelations. Over the past year, she had pondered about her ‘truth’ – what to exaggerate and what to labour. To please her fans, especially in America, her palpable anger and desire to shame the Royal Family would be disguised behind a serene face, alternately smiling and hurt.</p>
<p class="txt">As a self-styled progressive feminist, Meghan would have known that the sensitive touchpoints were bullying and racism. In the culture born in California, the self-declared victims were rarely doubted. Those who questioned the victim’s assertions as unproven allegations were damned. The peak of sensitivity was any revelation of attempted suicide. Few dared to doubt those confessions. Just as she had been urged by the Palace to remain silent – ‘Never complain, never explain’ was their motto – the Palace would not contest her truth after the broadcast.</p>
<p class="txt">On Tuesday 16th February 2021, Meghan sat in a sunlit Santa Barbara garden with Oprah Winfrey. With an actor’s ability to remember her lines, Meghan had rehearsed her replies and, most importantly, the appropriate movement of her hands, head and even eyes as she chose to speak in the dramatic whisper of a damaged angel. Presenting herself as a helpless innocent when she got engaged, she would deliver a performance worthy of Hollywood. Her make-up had taken nearly three hours to complete.</p>
<p class="txt">Of her successive accusations against the Royal Family, the most <span id="page_99"/>damaging was her weaponisation of race. Her unborn son, she whispered, was to be denied protection and a title as prince. ‘Concerns,’ she said ‘and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he’s born.’ Meghan could not be clearer. The Royal Family had denied the unborn Archie a title and protection because his mother was not white: the first member of colour in this family not to be titled in the same way that other grandchildren would be.</p>
<p class="txt">Oprah Winfrey asked, ‘They were concerned that if he were too brown, that would be a problem?’</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan replied, ‘If that’s the assumption you are making, I think that feels like a pretty safe one.’</p>
<p class="txt">Oprah: ‘What? Who is having that conversation with you?’</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan: ‘There were several conversations about it which took place in those months when I was pregnant.’ Meghan refused to identify the culprit: ‘I think that would be very damaging to them.’</p>
<p class="txt">For Oprah Winfrey, Meghan was clearly a martyr, a symbol of the revolution for social justice. Together they were victims who had become survivors in their self-created ‘safe harbour’. What Meghan would also call a ‘modern fairytale’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was introduced into the edited interview in the last third of the broadcast. He felt obliged to appear in the programme. Faced with a choice of ‘life and death’ where he was abandoned without protection to be ‘destroyed’ at the mercy of would-be murderers anxious to kill him and his family, he believed ‘being silent wasn’t working. We felt we had no choice . . . My wife and I were in peril.’ Telling their truth on American TV was, Harry said, no different than Palace spokesmen ‘planting stories’ and the Palace’s co-operation with many authors of books, especially Charles’s interviews with Jonathan Dimbleby for his ‘crypto-autobiography’ in 1994.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-169" id="en0-169" role="doc-noteref">169</a></sup> Oprah Winfrey did not pay for the interview but shortly afterwards, Harry would receive over $500,000 for a keynote speech to J.P.Morgan bankers in Miami.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-170" id="en0-170" role="doc-noteref">170</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_100"/>With stark honesty, or perhaps thoughtlessly, Harry contradicted Meghan’s description of his family’s racism. There was only one conversation about a future child, he said, ‘right at the beginning’ of their relationship, ‘before we even got married’. Meghan was not present, he said. There was no mention of titles or protection. The conversation was about, ‘What will the kids look like? At the time, it was awkward. I was a bit shocked.’ He would never, he said, identify the family members.</p>
<p class="txt">In fact, the conversation was over tea at Clarence House with Charles and Camilla. Harry had been gushing about finding the love of his life. After describing his girlfriend’s background, all three laughed about what their child might look like. Oprah Winfrey failed – or refused – to highlight the fundamental discrepancies between Meghan’s version and Harry’s.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s inaccuracies were not unfortunate errors. Clearly well rehearsed for the interview, she netted her prize. Across the globe, the headlines called the Royal Family ‘racist’. The second headline was about Meghan’s suicidal feelings during her pregnancy in January 2019. The cause, she told Oprah Winfrey, was ‘bullying and abuse’ on social media. ‘I just didn’t want to be alive any more.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-171" id="en0-171" role="doc-noteref">171</a></sup> Even worse, she claimed, she was not believed or protected by Palace officials.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I went to the institution,’ Meghan told Oprah Winfrey, referring to Palace officials, ‘and I said that I needed to go somewhere to get help. I said that “I’ve never felt this way before, and I need to go somewhere,” and I was told that I couldn’t, that it wouldn’t be good for the institution.’ Pressed to identify that ‘most senior’ person, Meghan replied, ‘I went to human resources and I said, “I just really – I need help.” Because in my old job, there was a union and they would protect me. And I remember this conversation like it was yesterday.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-172" id="en0-172" role="doc-noteref">172</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After the Oprah Winfrey interview, Meghan offered another version of the events following Harry finding his wife sobbing in Kensington Palace. Harry, she said in one of her podcasts, had ‘found a referral for <span id="page_101"/>me to call’. The psychiatrist, she continued, answered her call while standing at a supermarket checkout.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-173" id="en0-173" role="doc-noteref">173</a></sup> The episode was called, ‘Crazy or hysterical, nuts, insane, out of your mind, completely irrational.’ One year later, Meghan would add more detail: ‘I could hear the little beep-beep, and I was like, Hi, and I’m introducing myself and she’s literally going, “Wait, Sorry. I’m just . . . Who is this?” Um, and I’m saying I need help. And she could hear the dire state that I was in.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-174" id="en0-174" role="doc-noteref">174</a></sup> Meghan failed to disclose what happened thereafter.</p>
<p class="txt">No one who had seen Meghan on that January evening at the Royal Albert Hall with Harry could have imagined that just hours earlier she was seriously contemplating suicide. Either way, as an actor, she knew how to perform.</p>
<p class="txt">In the aftermath, some doubted Meghan’s near-suicide. Robustly she replied, ‘I haven’t really scraped the surface of my experience . . . I would never want someone else to be making those sorts of plans. And I would never want someone else to not be believed.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-175" id="en0-175" role="doc-noteref">175</a></sup> She added, ‘I don’t want anyone to feel alone.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-176" id="en0-176" role="doc-noteref">176</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">However, Meghan’s previous female advisors in Kensington Palace, alias ‘the Sussex Survivors Club’, judged their employer to be a ‘narcissistic sociopath’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-177" id="en0-177" role="doc-noteref">177</a></sup> More proof, they claimed, was Meghan’s assertion to Oprah Winfrey that the marriage service in Windsor was a fraud. The couple, she said, had been married days earlier in a private ceremony by the Archbishop of Canterbury. Indeed, eyewitnesses had seen the Archbishop in the garden outside Nottingham Cottage with Meghan and Harry. Dogs were barking near the huddle during what Meghan knew was – at her request – a short blessing, but it was not a marriage ceremony.</p>
<p class="txt">One week before the Oprah Winfrey programme was broadcast, the Palace discovered the contents from a trusted source at ITV in London. The station had bought the rights from CBS. The Palace decided to retaliate first. On 3rd March 2021, four days before the broadcast, Prince <span id="page_102"/>William apparently authorised the leaking of the Knauf memorandum about Meghan’s alleged bullying of her staff to <em>The Times</em>. The newspaper revealed that Meghan’s behaviour had driven two personal assistants to resign and a third, suffering a loss of self-confidence, to say, ‘I can’t stop shaking.’ None of those involved were identified. All claimed they had been operating in a ‘climate of fear’ where employees were routinely ‘humiliated’ by both Meghan and Harry in front of their peers and repeatedly subjected to ‘unreasonable demands’. One aide told <em>The Times</em>, it felt ‘more like emotional cruelty and manipulation, which I guess could also be called bullying’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-178" id="en0-178" role="doc-noteref">178</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the furore that followed <em>The Times</em>’s revelations, Buckingham Palace was accused by Meghan’s supporters of ‘shameless, obscene, racist-inspired malice’ against an innocent woman whose ‘kindness, goodwill runs in her bones’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-179" id="en0-179" role="doc-noteref">179</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On the eve of the broadcast, Meghan was in bed in Montecito crying. Not because she felt any remorse for her shattering allegations against the Royal Family, but because The Firm had orchestrated a ‘smear’ about her alleged bullying. Only William’s senior staff would have possessed Knauf’s memorandum to pass to <em>The Times</em>.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It was a great mistake and a great shame that Knauf’s complaint was leaked,’ a senior Buckingham Palace official would later say. ‘Leaking it to <em>The Times</em> gave it credibility. It caused so many problems.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-180" id="en0-180" role="doc-noteref">180</a></sup> Buckingham Palace did not approve of the tactics chosen by William in Kensington Palace.</p>
<p class="txt">The leak, Meghan believed, vindicated her telling Oprah Winfrey that the Palace could not expect them to ‘be silent if there is an active role that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us’. Her next sound bite sounded rehearsed: ‘They were willing to lie to protect other members of the family. They weren’t willing to tell the truth to protect me and my husband.’ And, as if on cue, she quietly brushed aside some tears.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-181" id="en0-181" role="doc-noteref">181</a></sup> She had been brave. She stood on the right side.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_103"/>Harry naturally supported his wife, despite earlier insisting that she never read anything about herself on the internet. ‘I held her,’ said Harry. ‘We talked, she cried and cried and cried.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-182" id="en0-182" role="doc-noteref">182</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As she cried, Meghan probably failed to recall her own homily: ‘If you live knowing the truth, regardless of what anyone says, you’ll be able to go to sleep with a clear conscience.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-183" id="en0-183" role="doc-noteref">183</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Certain they had spoken the ‘truth in the most compassionate way possible’ to Oprah, Harry nevertheless spoke about leaving ‘an opening for reconciliation and healing’. That sentiment was grasped by a Buckingham Palace spokesman. On Saturday night, he predicted that the interview would be a quickly forgotten sideshow – ‘lost in the mists of time’. The Palace did not understand Harry’s terms for reconciliation. Drawn from his therapist handbook, he meant: ‘We collectively can heal together if we share our stories.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-184" id="en0-184" role="doc-noteref">184</a></sup> Few in the Palace comprehended that kind of language.</p>
<p class="txt">The interview, CBS announced, was watched by 49 million people. The Sussexes’ courage was welcomed by President Biden, Hillary Clinton and the Obamas. The Sussexes’ critics were vitriolic. The interview was dubbed ‘a very Californian exercise in grievance’, a ‘tedious, narcissistic wallow’ and ‘a one-sided PR effort’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-185" id="en0-185" role="doc-noteref">185</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The most trenchant allegation about the Sussexes’ dishonesty referred to one of their original explanations for their flight from Britain – their demand for privacy. In Meghan’s definition, it transpired that privacy meant her unquestioned freedom to say what she liked, while criticism of her was unacceptable.</p>
<p class="txt">After the broadcast, the Palace realised its misjudgement. Reeling from the worldwide condemnation of the racist royals, the best the Palace could reply was the Queen’s comment that ‘recollections may vary’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-186" id="en0-186" role="doc-noteref">186</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Days later, Charles wrote to Meghan expressing his disappointment that the Sussexes had given the interview and denying his family’s racism. In reply, Meghan identified the person who made the racist <span id="page_104"/>comment. Her text has never been published but many did presume Charles personally of being the culprit. Two years later, while disclosing that private exchange, Meghan’s spokeswoman suggested that she had in fact referred to ‘unconscious bias’, a clearly intentional dilution of her accusations of racism to Oprah Winfrey.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-187" id="en0-187" role="doc-noteref">187</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Amid the tumult, the Sussexes’ spokesman announced that the interview would be the ‘last word’’ about their rift with the Royal Family. Having ‘needed to have their say’, they now considered the matter closed and wanted to ‘move on’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-188" id="en0-188" role="doc-noteref">188</a></sup> Though even while making that announcement, the spokesman knew that, fresh from demolishing the Royal Family with Oprah Winfrey, the Sussexes were preparing Netflix’s six-part series.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>