<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 12</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct12" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct12"><span id="page_105"/>CHAPTER 12</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>‘The Me You Can’t See’</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Liz Garbus picked her filming crew carefully. Each prospective technician and production assistant was vetted to ascertain that they were not anti-Sussex. After scrutinising their social media posts, each was questioned about loyalty and discretion. Those selected in November 2021 were required to sign a draconian non-disclosure agreement (NDA). Each member of the four-man filming crew was ordered never to speak to the Sussexes unless they were directly addressed by the couple. Under no circumstances were they to refer to them by their names. In internal documents they were called H and M. In any rare personal contact, Meghan was to be addressed as ‘Ma’am’ and Harry as ‘Sir’. Filming was to start in December.</p>
<p class="txt">Garbus recorded her interviews in a rented house over ten days, each session lasting eight hours. To make the interviews more intimate, the camera crew was occasionally concealed behind black fabric screens. Not only to create a better atmosphere, but also so that the crew could not see – except on the monitors – the relationship between Garbus and the Sussexes. No Archewell employee came on to the set.</p>
<p class="txt">To prevent any leaks about disagreements and retakes, Garbus discussed each question with the Sussexes before entering the room. Carefully, the Sussexes never commented in front of the crew during or <span id="page_106"/>after a session about the interviews. Those sensitive conversations were delayed until they had returned to the production area and could not be overheard. There, Archewell’s executive producer Ben Browning, after watching it ‘live’ on a monitor, gave his judgement. No hint of displeasure seeped from his room. When he or the Sussexes decided that a question should be reshot, their decision would not be flagged in front of the crew or any other members of the production team. Everything was agreed in private. Inevitably, the crew identified some reshoots, especially the emotional scenes. ‘Garbus left it to Meghan to know how to perform spontaneously at the required moment,’ recalled a member of the crew. Carefully, Garbus never hinted that Meghan’s on-camera suffering was staged.</p>
<p class="txt">By then, the Sussexes had handed Garbus over twenty hours of video filmed by them and their staff. Among the rushes was the morning after Meghan and Harry’s splashy interview with Oprah in March 2021. The grainy, unlit sequence showed the couple sitting side by side at their home when Meghan exclaimed: ‘Beyoncé’s just texted!’</p>
<p class="txt">Harry pulled a mock-surprised face and theatrically threw his hands up.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Shut up,’ said Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Just checking in, just casual,’ replied Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan laughed: ‘I still can’t believe she knows who I am. She said she wants me to feel safe and protected.’ Harry nodded.</p>
<p class="txt">Next, Meghan delivered a perfect sound bite: ‘She admires and respects my bravery and vulnerability and says I was selected to break generational curses that need to be healed.’</p>
<p class="txt">If that exchange smelt of re-enactment, the call Meghan took from Tyler Perry seemed even less authentic than what followed.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry interrupted Meghan’s discussion about the Queen’s ‘recollections may vary’ statement. Sticking his mobile in front of Meghan’s face, she allegedly read a text from William.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_107"/>‘Wow!’ Meghan said.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I wish I knew what to do,’ Harry sighed, appearing distressed.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I know,’ Meghan replied – and they theatrically embrace. Pause, and then Meghan suggests, ‘Let’s take a breather, get some air and then decide.’ Cut!</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">In parallel, Harry was deeply engaged with Moehringer for his autobiography. Shared among an increasing number of Random House’s editors, Moehringer’s draft chapters reflected Harry’s mental health challenges and vitriolic recriminations about his family. In their discussions, some experienced editors spotted that Moehringer seemed to be unaware of Harry’s hypocrisy. Playing the eternal victim, he said he wanted an ordinary life but at the same time demanded all the privileges of royalty. Angry that he was the ‘spare’, the self-confessed delinquent without a purpose in life was venting his fury that nearly every member of his family failed to appreciate his special needs. Moehringer’s drafts recorded the one-sided complaint of appalling treatment. Eager to serve his client, Moehringer embellished the lucrative soap opera. After all, the ghostwriter was a republican who cared ‘less than nothing’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-189" id="en0-189" role="doc-noteref">189</a></sup> for a thousand years of British history. Harry’s failure to understand the uncompromising nature of the British constitution was irrelevant to the ghostwriter. Even though Harry had said, ‘Many of my family aren’t able to work and live together,’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-190" id="en0-190" role="doc-noteref">190</a></sup> Moehringer inserted no reflective comment when voicing Harry’s need for a family and not a monarchy.</p>
<p class="txt">All those accusations had been recorded before Prince Philip died on 9th April 2021. Although his grandfather’s death had been anticipated, family sentiments had not deterred Harry from his onslaught.</p>
<p class="txt">What could be seen as Harry’s own betrayal of his family had not abated when he arrived at Windsor’s St George’s Chapel on 17th April for Prince Philip’s funeral. In his parallel state, he had been initially <span id="page_108"/>‘afraid’ to return for the funeral because it would ‘trigger’ a trauma.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-191" id="en0-191" role="doc-noteref">191</a></sup> But while he could not avoid the funeral, he knew that Meghan would be unwelcome. After her appearance on Oprah Winfrey, she would not have dared to return to Britain. ‘Thank goodness Meghan’s not coming,’ the 94-year-old Queen said in a clear voice to her trusted aide as she prepared for the service that morning.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-192" id="en0-192" role="doc-noteref">192</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry suffered no remorse. Charles and William, he knew, had clearly been thrown by the Oprah Winfrey interview. The enormous damage caused by his accusation that the Royal Family was racist was not beyond his comprehension.</p>
<p class="txt">Inside the chapel, the Queen, wearing a black Covid mask, sat in dignified isolation. That image generated huge sympathy around the world. Covid restrictions had sharply limited the number of mourners. Harry and Prince Andrew – both stripped of the honour of wearing their service uniforms – wore morning suits, as did the other mourners.</p>
<p class="txt">Anguish filled Charles’s face. William looked tense. Harry’s bland expression defied a charitable description. Outside the chapel afterwards, as he impatiently flapped the order of service on his thigh, he knew that the accusations about Oprah Winfrey were just a foretaste of much worse to come. Nevertheless, he agreed to Kate’s suggestion that he walk with William from the chapel back towards the castle. The TV commentators instantly cast Kate as the broker of reconciliation.</p>
<p class="txt">‘They’re filming us,’ William warned Harry. Their expressionless faces as they marched up the hill encouraged commentators to wild speculation. None realised that Harry expected a ‘genuine apology’ and ‘genuine accountability’ from Charles and William. In Harry’s terms, reconciliation was only possible if his family begged forgiveness from him and Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">That hurdle became clear when Charles and his sons met after the funeral beyond Frogmore’s gardens. Harry claimed the meeting was his idea ‘to find a way out’ of the ‘months the Windsors had been <span id="page_109"/>at war’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-193" id="en0-193" role="doc-noteref">193</a></sup> As he waited, he conjured the impression that he had spotted snipers across the rooftops outside St George’s Chapel. Their presence, he would claim, was because of an ‘unprecedented number of threats’ against him.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-194" id="en0-194" role="doc-noteref">194</a></sup> In reality, snipers were always deployed. On that day there were no unusual threats. His paranoia was in overdrive.</p>
<p class="txt">During his conversations with Moehringer, Harry had castigated his father for behaving with cold indifference in his bedroom after giving him the news of Diana’s death. His emotionally negligent father had failed to hug him. Twenty-four years later in Windsor, Harry seemingly had no sense that his father was suffering his own traumatic loss. As Charles and William approached him after the funeral, he observed only that neither smiled at him.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-195" id="en0-195" role="doc-noteref">195</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘They’d come ready for a fight,’ complained Harry, blaming the breakdown of relations on his father’s request that he stop his legal campaign against the tabloids. Moehringer articulated Harry’s fury towards Fleet Street as ‘the dreadful mob of dweebs and crones and cutrate criminals and clinically diagnosed sadists’ who earned their profits ‘by tormenting one very large, very ancient, very dysfunctional family’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-196" id="en0-196" role="doc-noteref">196</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Just two hours after the funeral, Harry accused his father and brother of being collaborators with the tabloids against him and Meghan: ‘You helped them against us.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘You’re delusional, Harry,’ said William. The Palace, added Charles, ‘can’t just tell the media what to do’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry scoffed. By now, persuaded by Meghan, he believed that celebrities could control the media – just as William had fed <em>The Times</em> ‘their lie’ that Meghan was a bully. And, thought Harry, no one displayed more vanity towards the media than his father: ‘Deprived of love as a boy, bullied by schoolmates, he was dangerously, compulsively drawn to the elixir [newspapers] offered him.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-197" id="en0-197" role="doc-noteref">197</a></sup> The two men, he deemed, were ‘lost’. In his anger near the graveyard, Harry accused his father and brother of allowing the tabloids to damage ‘our love and our bond’. <span id="page_110"/>‘I’ll soon prove,’ he insisted, ‘that the press were more than liars. They were lawbreakers. I’m going to see some of them thrown into jail.’</p>
<p class="txt">Exasperated by Harry’s fantasies and lack of remorse, Charles and William realised that any communication with him was hopeless. Therapy had taught him a language his family didn’t understand. Every question they asked was misunderstood. Under Meghan’s influence he had moved into another world. ‘We have made it to the other side,’ Harry told his father.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-198" id="en0-198" role="doc-noteref">198</a></sup> In Moehringer ‘s version, Harry spewed out his recriminations without fear of contradiction. Moehringer, it appeared to one editor, was uncertain whether Harry understood himself.</p>
<p class="txt">That afternoon, neither Charles nor William grasped that in Harry’s new world, deception was acceptable. Harry’s subversion extended to his description of that very encounter in Windsor.</p>
<p class="txt">Lacking any sympathy for his family, Harry’s adrenaline was pumping as he flew back to Los Angeles. He did not reconsider withdrawing any of his condemnatory comments to Moehringer. On the contrary. On his return, Harry depicted his father to Moehringer as a worn-out, powerless wreck. Instead of feeling compassion for Charles – a son burying his father and witnessing his solitary, grieving mother – Harry lampooned Charles for appealing to his arguing sons during their confrontation, ‘Please, boys – don’t make my final years a misery.’ Distraught, Charles was portrayed as clueless about how to deal with the crisis he had partly created.</p>
<p class="txt">To bring their Windsor summit to a dramatic climax, Moehringer depicted Harry burdened by a ‘death cult’ generated by his family and the atmosphere in the chapel. Bravely, Harry ‘spoke’ how alone, he would ‘break free and live . . . I had changed to the point where I had outgrown my environment.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-199" id="en0-199" role="doc-noteref">199</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Windsor meeting had deepened the three men’s distrust. The opportunity for reconciliation was lost. Harry had become fixated by hatred. Meghan and Moehringer stoked his wrath.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_111"/>One month later, Harry delivered another blow against his family. An Apple TV series called <em>The Me You Can’t See</em> about his mental health, produced with Oprah Winfrey, was launched on 21st May 2021. The programmes focused on his mental torment. All his family, Harry believed, were ‘on the spectrum and we slide up and down’. The barrier to their relationship, he concluded, was his dysfunctional father’s and brother’s inability to ‘speak his new language’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-200" id="en0-200" role="doc-noteref">200</a></sup> Mental health became his battering ram against his family. He even criticised the Queen and Philip as neglectful, unloving parents to Charles. Breathlessly he linked Charles’s ‘genetic pain’ to his own childhood misery. The rest of his family, especially William, were equally blamed for his ‘cycles of suffering’ and ‘unresolved anger’.</p>
<p class="txt">A scriptwriter provided the line to compare his life as ‘a mixture between <em>The Truman Show</em> and being in a zoo’ to introduce the monarchy: ‘I’ve seen behind the curtain. I’ve seen the business model. I know how this operation runs . . . I don’t want to be part of this.’</p>
<p class="txt">One particular trigger for his dudgeon, he said, was the ‘combined effort of The Firm and the media to smear Meghan’ while she was suicidal. ‘She was going to end her life. It shouldn’t have to get to that,’ and he added, ‘That was one of the biggest reasons to leave, feeling trapped and feeling controlled through fear, both by the media and by the system itself. I was ashamed to go to my family. Because I know that I’m not going to get from my family what I need.’</p>
<p class="txt">Cast by Buckingham Palace, according to Harry, as ‘villains’, he melodramatically ramped up the earlier accusations he had aired in the Oprah Winfrey interview. He described how he and ‘struggling’ Meghan had felt ‘bullied into silence’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-201" id="en0-201" role="doc-noteref">201</a></sup> In his terms, the Palace’s own silence – the official refusal to ‘protect’ them – was ‘betrayal’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-202" id="en0-202" role="doc-noteref">202</a></sup> Even while they negotiated their departure – ‘hunted and helpless’ in London – there were ‘forces working against us’. Harry never named those family members who ignored his pleas.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_112"/>Persuaded by his therapist that his problems were caused by his family, Harry was certain that thanks to ayahuasca, a class-A psychedelic hallucinogen, his mental health had stabilised. Drugs had ‘helped me deal with the trauma of my past’. He could ‘open up’, he said. Like so many users of therapy, once he felt cured, Harry believed he possessed unique insight.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-203" id="en0-203" role="doc-noteref">203</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry had first publicly revealed his mental health problems in 2017. Speaking on Bryony Gordon’s <em>Mad World</em> podcast, he described being ‘very close to a complete breakdown on numerous occasions’ and saved by ‘a shrink’. His therapy had started, he told Gordon, ‘three years ago’. The initiative in 2014, he repeated, was William’s: ‘Bless him, he was a huge support to me,’ he told Gordon. At that time, William was credited with urging him to get help after his breakdown related to Diana’s death and his service in Afghanistan. And by his own account, Harry emerged cured.</p>
<p class="txt">In 2021, Harry changed his narrative. On Oprah Winfrey’s show, Harry cut William out of the plot. He also buried his co-operation with William and Kate to launch jointly in 2016 the HeadsTogether campaign, a charity helping mental health sufferers. Then he changed his story again.</p>
<p class="txt">In the revised version as told to Moehringer, he needed to liberate himself from being ‘trapped’ within his uncaring family and the institution. ‘No one around me could really help,’ he said. The Royal Family, he now complained, gave him no support after his breakdown, and it was only after he met Meghan in 2016 that he was ‘inspired to pursue therapy’. Misleadingly, he added, ‘I knew that if I didn’t fix myself that I was going to lose this woman . . . That was the start of the learning journey for me.’ In this version, far from suggesting it, William had pointed to Meghan’s suggestion of therapy as the cause of Harry’s ‘brainwashing’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-204" id="en0-204" role="doc-noteref">204</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Into that confused mix, Harry added the accusation that the uncaring <span id="page_113"/>Royal Family had suppressed any discussion about Meghan’s mental health. ‘Every single ask, request, warning,’ Harry said, ‘just got met with total silence or total neglect.’ Accordingly, the Royal Family was blamed for Meghan being suicidal.</p>
<p class="txt">Inevitably, the public was not microscopically examining Harry’s inconsistent versions. But his accounts ranged from not telling his family about Meghan’s brush with suicide to asserting the opposite – that for more than one year he had discussed Meghan’s unhappiness with his family and outlined their dramatic solution. Namely, that they would leave Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-205" id="en0-205" role="doc-noteref">205</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan was similarly responsible for contradictions. She had disclosed that her search for help while considering suicide was unsuccessful on two occasions. First, she was spurned by Buckingham Palace’s HR department and secondly, she was palmed off after telephoning a psychoanalyst. But she never suggested that she had spoken to members of the Royal Family. Her inconsistencies challenged Harry’s final version in <em>Spare</em>.</p>
<p class="txt">In the Apple TV series on his mental health, Harry thanked Meghan for telling him to seek a therapist. But if Harry found a therapist in 2016, why could the same therapist not be consulted for Meghan in 2019?</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s versions, embellished by Meghan’s ‘truth’, would be seized on by Piers Morgan. ‘I wouldn’t believe Meghan Markle if she gave me a weather report,’ he claimed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-206" id="en0-206" role="doc-noteref">206</a></sup> Morgan’s riposte was endorsed by her critics but was scorned by her admirers. In doing so, her critics concluded that Meghan’s suicidal feelings were a performance to persuade Harry to move to California.</p>
<p class="txt">The Apple series was a ratings success. Many were impressed by Harry, especially men who shared his reticence about discussing their mental health issues. Only a few had no sympathy for a multi-millionaire prince pleading for pity. For those, Harry posing as the public’s healer but only speaking about himself was simply too rich. The downsides caused no damage to Harry but Meghan sensed a problem.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>