<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 13</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct13" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct13"><span id="page_114"/>CHAPTER 13</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Security</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Brand Sussexes’ image was critical to Meghan’s fortunes. Americans, she knew, resented scroungers or ‘grifters’. Meghan’s absence of humility – flaunting her celebrity lifestyle in Montecito – risked striking a bad note. Her critics carped that she was famous but not relevant. Meghan needed to twist the narrative to establish the Sussexes’ USP, their unique selling point. While Harry’s previous life would make him oblivious to commercial imperatives, she knew that the negative headlines from Britain’s media, about an elitist family aggressively protecting their privacy from within their closeted Montecito fortress, clashed with the public’s admiration of hard-working achievers who fulfilled the American Dream.</p>
<p class="txt">Wrestling with reality, Meghan’s business advisors and in-house publicist were faced with a conundrum. For many, she was an enigma. Standing in the spotlight, she somehow lacked the charisma and mysterious charm of a Hollywood star. Moreover, Hollywood’s celebrities often illustrated their backstories with tales of tough childhoods, climbing the ladder and finally landing the big break. But Meghan’s big break was marriage. While Harry remained irrefutably the prince, Meghan’s exceptional achievement was acting as a royal while complaining about his family. Complicating her publicists’ task, <span id="page_115"/>the Sussexes would not tolerate any criticism. On her publicists’ advice, Meghan changed her story.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan had told Oprah Winfrey, ‘I grew up with that farm-to-table dining before it was sweeping the nation.’ She added, ‘I do think there’s some value to really throwing yourself into food and embracing where it comes from.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-207" id="en0-207" role="doc-noteref">207</a></sup> That truth was abandoned. Meghan’s revised version portrayed herself as a ‘latch-key kid’ surviving on junk Jack-in-the-box TV dinners <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-208" id="en0-208" role="doc-noteref">208</a></sup> and a $4.99 salad bar at Sizzlers, and as a schoolgirl working at weekends at a local Humphrey Yogart shop.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-209" id="en0-209" role="doc-noteref">209</a></sup> ‘Lies and lies,’ Thomas Markle would retort. ‘She always ate the best food, often in the best restaurants.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-210" id="en0-210" role="doc-noteref">210</a></sup> Meghan, he said, never had a weekend job and, if he was working late, she would either stay with her school friends or was brought to the studio in a chauffeured car. Most Americans preferred not to believe Thomas Markle. Attracted by the publicists’ new image of the Sussexes as charitable philanthropists escaping from a racist Royal Family, the majority warmed to the couple trading as the Duke and Duchess.</p>
<p class="txt">By now, Meghan was heavily pregnant with her second child. To reinforce their invaluable royal connection, the Sussexes decided to name their unborn daughter Lilibet, the Queen’s nickname used only by her closest family members. A Lilibet website – lilibetdiana.com – was even registered before the birth.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-211" id="en0-211" role="doc-noteref">211</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s daughter was born at Santa Barbara’s Cottage Hospital on 4th June 2021, with an all-female medical team. After the birth, but before the public announcement, Harry called the Queen. He told his grandmother about the birth and their decision to call their daughter Lilibet. Harry claimed that the Queen approved the name.</p>
<p class="txt">Hours later, the Palace briefed the BBC that the Queen was ‘never asked’ for permission for the use of her name. In his telephone call, Harry was ‘telling’ the Queen, not asking her permission. Once the BBC broadcast that negative report, the Sussexes’ ‘truth’ machine was activated. <span id="page_116"/>‘Had she not been supportive,’ said Toya Holness, their spokeswoman, ‘they would not have used the name.’ The Sussexes’ legal firm, Schillings, announced that unless the BBC apologised, the Sussexes would sue for defamation. Pitching Harry against the Queen was an extreme tactic to control the Sussexes’ image. The Palace, though, supported the BBC. Royal correspondent Robert Hardman would quote a senior Palace official that the Queen was ‘as angry as I’d ever seen her’ that she had agreed with Harry’s suggestion.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-212" id="en0-212" role="doc-noteref">212</a></sup> Faced with the factual truth, the Sussexes retreated. Schillings’s threat evaporated. The Sussexes’ ‘truth’ was defeated. Buckingham Palace’s refusal to support his truth outraged Harry. His old enemies in the Palace, he decided, especially Edward Young, were deliberately diminishing his status in Britain.</p>
<p class="txt">At the end of June, Harry and Meghan arrived at Heathrow. For the first time, no armed police protection officers were waiting. Convinced that his status and safety required armed guards, Harry was incandescent. Ever since his birth he was accustomed to being surrounded by protection officers. On all his excursions he was comforted by tough men prepared to die to ensure his safety. As a drunken teenager, he had been saved by them from disaster repeatedly. Before the Sandringham summit, he had not anticipated that the Royal Family would deprive him of their services.</p>
<p class="txt">The reality struck him on 30th June 2021. Early that evening, he and Meghan were driven out of London’s Kew Gardens after a WellChild function. Eager paparazzi came close to his car. Convinced that he and Meghan were a ‘sitting duck’ to be murdered by fanatics, he complained to Edward Young. Not only as fifth in line to the throne and a ‘prince of the realm’ was he entitled to protection, but also because of his ‘particular and unusual position’ after military service. He feared that ‘one lone actor’, motivated by right-wing hatred or racism, could attack Meghan with a knife or acid: ‘These are things that are genuine concerns for me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-213" id="en0-213" role="doc-noteref">213</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Asking Young for help must have been irritating. Described in <span id="page_117"/>Moehringer’s script as ‘oval-faced and fuzzy appearance’ with a tendency to ‘glide around with great equanimity and poise as if he was a boon to all living things’, Harry disliked the Palace official.</p>
<p class="txt">Edward Young passed Harry’s complaint to Scotland Yard. The police agreed that the ‘ambush’ created an ‘unsatisfactory and dangerous’ situation, but while the paparazzi were a nuisance, there was no evidence that Harry and Meghan were threatened by a potential assassin.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-214" id="en0-214" role="doc-noteref">214</a></sup> Only that danger, replied Scotland Yard, would justify permanent police bodyguards around the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s rage revived after returning to Heathrow on 1st July for the unveiling of a statue to Diana. Again, no protection officers were waiting for him. Throughout his visit, photographers were not held back by the police. That, he decided, was intolerable.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-215" id="en0-215" role="doc-noteref">215</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s rage had escalated since ‘Megxit’ in 2020. During the initial Sandringham summit, Harry had been told that the Royal Family would support his request for security but, he was cautioned, the decision would be made by a government committee called Ravec. The Royal and VIP Executive Committee was dedicated to assessing threats to the Royal Family and others.</p>
<p class="txt">Ravec, Harry knew, was part of the network of government committees filled with Establishment personalities, not least Clive Alderton, Charles’s private secretary. He believed that his father was pulling the strings. If Charles made a request to the committee to provide armed protection for Harry or asked the Home Office ‘for more help and greater flexibility’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-216" id="en0-216" role="doc-noteref">216</a></sup> it was inconceivable that this would be denied. Harry had called his father but Charles refused to take his telephone calls. He agreed with suspicious Palace officials that his son’s constant demands for money and protection reflected Meghan’s influence. They concluded the demand for armed bodyguards reflected a desire to enhance their status.</p>
<p class="txt">To ensure Harry understood, Edward Young had sent him on 11<sup>th</sup> January – eighteen months before the incident at Heathrow – a detailed <span id="page_118"/>message emphasising that Ravec and not Buckingham Palace would decide whether he needed armed protection.</p>
<p class="txt">Ravec’s chairman was Richard Mottram, the former head of the defence ministry and ex-head of Whitehall’s joint intelligence committee. For three days after the Sandringham summit, Mottram considered whether Harry and his family should be protected. The cost would be about £10,000 a day. Back-up cars cost extra. By then, Mottram believed from Harry’s conversations with his family and friends from Vancouver that the Sussexes were breaking off from the Royal Family. Few believed the Sussexes’ pledge to ‘start a new life in Canada’ or Harry’s assertion that ‘the UK is my home’. Indeed, Whitehall’s officials had already heard from confidential sources that the Sussexes intended to move permanently to California. The Cabinet Secretary, Mark Sedwill, called Harry in Canada. Police protection, said Sedwill, was provided to working royals to prevent violent attacks, not to guard celebrities irritated by the public. And Harry, as a non-working royal living abroad, could not expect British taxpayers to fund his security. He would need to pay for private bodyguards. Unexpectedly, Sedwill discovered Harry’s unwillingness to accept that he was responsible for his own fate.</p>
<p class="txt">At that time in 2020, Harry called Edward Young. He expected the Queen, he said, to overrule Mottram’s decision. Young replied that Mottram refused to budge. Not least because the intelligence agencies had not discovered any evidence that Harry or his family were exposed to an identifiable risk. Critically, Mottram did not ask the government’s Risk Management Board (RMB) to evaluate the risk Harry faced. The reason, Mottram later explained, was that Harry’s new circumstances as a non-working royal were unprecedented. A special ‘flexible and tailored’ approach would be necessary.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s fury grew. How, he demanded, could these decisions be made without anyone consulting him? He was leaving Britain because his family was at risk. That reason should justify protection. He and <span id="page_119"/>Meghan alone would decide whether he was in danger. Not a government official. As usual, Harry was inconsistent. Previously, Harry had justified his departure from Britain by highlighting the Palace’s refusal to protect him and Meghan from the media. Now he claimed that he had been compelled to escape from the risk of an assassin. No one bothered to tell Harry that he had shifted his ground.</p>
<p class="txt">Unaccustomed to being rebuffed, Harry demanded the name of the government official who was willing to put the Sussexes in a position of extreme vulnerability ‘as some form of punishment for protecting my family and putting them first’. Even twenty-three years earlier, raged Harry, when the risks were lower, the government did not expose ‘my mother’ to that risk. That was inaccurate. Fearing they were spying on her, Diana had actually dispensed with police bodyguards rather than had them taken away.</p>
<p class="txt">Over the next few days, Whitehall’s most senior officials were inundated with a flow of Harry’s emails demanding the identity of the official ‘comfortable taking accountability for what could happen’. Officials could not decide whether ‘Meghan’s self-important quest for status was feeding Harry’s paranoia’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-217" id="en0-217" role="doc-noteref">217</a></sup> After all, Princess Anne travelled without protection unless on some royal duties and she had already been the target of an attempted kidnap.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry next called the Queen. At her request, on 6th February 2020, Young told Sedwill what had been agreed between Harry and the Queen at Sandringham. ‘You will understand,’ Young wrote, ‘that ensuring the Duke and Duchess of Sussex remain safe is of paramount importance to Her Majesty and her family.’ Mindful of Diana’s ‘tragic’ death and the Sussexes being targets of extremists, Young continued, ‘it is imperative that the family continues to be provided with effective security.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-218" id="en0-218" role="doc-noteref">218</a></sup> Young appealed to Sedwill to reassure Harry that his protection was being considered as requested by the sovereign, but government officials and not the Royal Family made the decision. Young’s email about the <span id="page_120"/>Queen’s request for his protection was, in Harry’s opinion, window dressing. In what he’d called a palace of lies he could imagine that moments after Young’s email was sent, Young telephoned Sedwill to say that the message was simply for the records and should be ignored. In their vipers’ nest, that sort of manoeuvre was apparently normal.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry accused Edward Young of obstruction. Because of ‘significant tensions’ between himself and the Queen’s private secretary, explained Harry, he doubted that Young had ‘fully communicated’ his offer of paying for protection to Ravec. Harry also accused Young of negatively influencing Ravec’s decision to axe his taxpayer-funded police bodyguards.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-219" id="en0-219" role="doc-noteref">219</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry made the same accusations against Mark Sedwill, the Cabinet Secretary. Harry claimed that in January and in April 2020, he told Sedwill personally he would pay for his own protection but that his offers were not passed on to Ravec. Government lawyers denied that Harry made an offer to anyone before he started legal proceedings against the government in September 2021. Harry’s veracity was undermined by the government’s records.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-220" id="en0-220" role="doc-noteref">220</a></sup> There was no record of Harry offering to pay for his protection at the Sandringham summit.</p>
<p class="txt">On 28th February 2020, Mottram formally told Harry that Ravec had withdrawn the Sussexes’ permanent police protection. The taxpayer would not pay for his protection abroad. In future, before each visit to Britain, Ravec would monitor the risks and decide whether Harry needed protection. Mottram also told Harry that he could not pay for police protection. The reason was irrefutable: police bodyguards were expected to risk their lives to protect their principal because the state had decided that it was in the public interest. To permit Harry to pay would be an unacceptable precedent allowing others also to buy life-or-death protection.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-221" id="en0-221" role="doc-noteref">221</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s sustained fury on this matter on his return to Heathrow in July 2021 must have been wonderful news for his lawyers. By then, <span id="page_121"/>Schillings were fighting two cases on Harry’s behalf against the tabloids (the Mirror Group and News UK) and considering two more cases. Harry was a lucrative client – ‘a goldmine’ said one critic – guaranteeing the lawyers millions of pounds if they won or lost.</p>
<p class="txt">Jenny Afia, the solicitor who had at this time just won Meghan’s case against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>, encouraged Harry to believe that Mottram’s decision could be overruled by the High Court. The lawyers’ confidence of victory and their promise to dispatch acrimonious complaints to government officials fell on fertile ground.</p>
<p class="txt">In Harry’s opinion, going over the top was justified. Going into battle to show that he was the victim of his family raised his self-confidence. Embarrassing his father and brother had seemingly become a worthwhile quest. His security, he said, had only been withdrawn to apply pressure ‘to keep us under the roof’ and ‘knowing that risk would force us to come back [to Britain]’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-222" id="en0-222" role="doc-noteref">222</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In Harry’s world, since everything he believed was the truth, he was certain of victory. In his reasoning he could not imagine that a judge considering the merits between himself and government officials would not support a prince. During his conversations with Moehringer, his conviction that he was the victim of conspiracies had been reinforced. He expected to swing public opinion in his favour. Eventually he believed he would win.</p>
<p class="txt">In September 2021, Harry instructed his lawyers to issue a High Court claim – for a judicial review against the Home Office. In particular, Harry complained that Mottram’s decision subjected him to ‘unlawful and unfair treatment’. In secrecy, Ravec had failed to offer ‘a clear and full explanation’ of how they came to the decision to treat him uniquely ‘less favourably’ than others.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-223" id="en0-223" role="doc-noteref">223</a></sup> Not only was Ravec’s failure to commission a RMB report unlawful, he said, but Ravec’s denial of 24-hour armed guards was illegal.</p>
<p class="txt">Edward Young was flummoxed. Harry’s action was unprecedented. <span id="page_122"/>A member of the Royal Family suing the Queen’s government in the Queen’s court embarrassed the monarchy. The Queen’s private secretary, noted one observer, was ‘puzzled’ about who had encouraged Harry to ‘take to the courts’, and Young was also ‘terrified’ that Harry was suing two newspapers. In one case, he had employed four barristers.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-224" id="en0-224" role="doc-noteref">224</a></sup> In the end, they blamed Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s claim against the Home Office was unknown to the public. His lawyers asked the judge to keep the proceedings secret. The Home Office opposed the denial of ‘open justice’ and awaited a judge’s decision.</p>
<p class="txt">Excited by firing off on so many fronts, Harry and Meghan arrived in New York later that month for a high-profile visit. Just crowned by <em>Time</em> magazine as number one among America’s 100 most influential people, the couple had reached the zenith of their fame and popularity. Without any problems, the Sussexes’ staff had persuaded the city’s mayor and police to provide the maximum security necessary for the Queen’s grandson.</p>
<p class="txt">Bursting with enthusiasm, the Sussexes had every reason to believe they were privileged royals. Although Meghan had told <em>Vanity Fair,</em> ‘I’ve never defined myself by my relationship,’ she always introduced herself as the Duchess of Sussex, not least as a nascent politician in telephone calls to two Republican senators to promote paid parental leave.</p>
<p class="txt">Every move in Manhattan was carefully planned to satisfy the Sussexes’ narrative – their importance as members of the Royal Family. Their tour included visits to the site of the Twin Towers, the United Nations and the headquarters of the World Health Organization, all ideal photo opportunities for the Netflix cameraman given access for chosen sequences.</p>
<p class="txt">In preparing for the Sussexes’ visit to the Mahalia Jackson elementary school in Harlem, spokeswoman Toya Holness told the school’s head that Meghan would be filmed reading her new book, <em>The Bench</em>, to a class of children. To perfect the image, Holness had arranged to have <span id="page_123"/>the classroom transformed to make it look ‘more appealing’. The room’s walls were painted, attractive cushions were strategically placed and the lighting improved. In advance, the city’s media spokeswoman Danielle Filson sent Holness her draft press release. Holness objected to Filson’s description of Meghan ‘reading aloud’. She wanted a ‘more substantial’ description of Meghan contributing to ‘community support’. Filson replied that the release should not be ‘promotiony’ – exactly what the Sussexes did want.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-225" id="en0-225" role="doc-noteref">225</a></sup> Holness won that battle.</p>
<p class="txt">To control their image, Meghan demanded that everyone involved, including city officials, sign NDAs and not make any ‘negative’ comments about the couple.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-226" id="en0-226" role="doc-noteref">226</a></sup> The result was media reports about her carping demands. Since journalists were excluded from the school, their reports ridiculed the appropriateness of Meghan’s $15,000 outfit, including a Loro Piana cashmere coat. They also questioned how her happy family book was relevant to the deprived children she was meeting and whether the Sussexes could promote a fictional father’s relationship with his child considering that they were both estranged from their own fathers. Those jibes were ignored. The Sussexes’ quest for public approval in America remained secure, just as their reputations in Britain became more precarious.</p>
<p class="txt">At the same time, Jason Knauf had signed a statement that Meghan had not told the truth in her <em>Mail on Sunday</em> case. Her statement that she had not consulted Knauf about her letter to her father and her denial of any co-operation with Omid Scobie, said Knauf, was untrue. Not only had he been consulted about the letter but on Meghan’s orders, he had given Omid Scobie a copy of Meghan’s letter to her father. Clearly, Meghan had expected her ‘private’ letter would be published.</p>
<p class="txt">Schillings communicated this to Meghan. Clearly shocked by Knauf’s version of events, Meghan composed herself. In adversity, she took advice and fought back. She carefully arranged for herself and Harry to be filmed as if reading that message from Schillings for the first time, <span id="page_124"/>flying on a private jet to New York. ‘How do we deal with that?’ she asked Harry. She then accused William of authorising Knauf’s statement to be leaked to <em>The Times</em>: ‘It’s your brother,’ she said on camera. Harry agreed: ‘They’ll try and cover it up.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-227" id="en0-227" role="doc-noteref">227</a></sup> In the context of Knauf accusing Meghan of lying, the Sussexes’ sound bites were nonsensical. But in their battle to damage William’s reputation and that of the monarchy, their contrived exchange – all filmed for their Netflix documentary – was perfect. Especially after what followed in New York and London.</p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Mail on Sunday</em> appealed against Meghan’s victory. Seven weeks before the appeal was to be heard in London, in November 2021, Harry was on the stage at a RE:WIRED conference in New York denouncing the media. Recently, he had called the First Amendment – America’s constitutional cornerstone to protect the media from state censorship – as ‘bonkers’ and ‘vulgar’. The media, he told the conference, had no interest in publishing the truth: ‘Misinformation is a global humanitarian crisis.’ Inaccurate journalists were damned by Harry as ‘the pirates with press cards who have hijacked the most powerful industry in the world’. He asked, ‘If the news media is supposed to be holding us to account, who is holding them to account? I would love to see a movement to expose the unethical, the immoral and dishonest amongst them.’ Emotionally, he attacked the British media for ‘creating news with a vested interest’ to provoke Meghan’s untimely death.</p>
<p class="txt">Just as Harry delivered that condemnation, Meghan, acting on her lawyer’s advice, admitted Knauf’s allegations. Indeed, she admitted that she had signed an inaccurate statement. She apologised to the judges. In normal legal cases, Meghan would have been vulnerable to merciless cross-examination during a trial, weakening her case against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>. But despite her mistake, Schillings were confident of victory. England’s judges, the lawyers knew, were prejudiced against the media and historically always supported the Royal Family. The lawyers’ prediction was accurate. Three judges accepted Meghan’s apology, <span id="page_125"/>blaming an ‘unfortunate lapse of memory’. A proper trial, they declared, was unnecessary. They ruled in her favour.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes were euphoric. ‘This is a victory not just for me but for anyone who has ever felt scared to stand up for what’s right,’ said Meghan, damning the <em>Mail</em> and other tabloids. ‘In the nearly three years since this began, I have been patient in the face of deception, intimidation and calculated attacks.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-228" id="en0-228" role="doc-noteref">228</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan and Harry had every reason to believe they were a protected golden couple with the world at their feet. Neither would be familiar with the witch’s warning at the opening of <em>Macbeth</em>: ‘Shall he dwindle, peak and pine.’ Those at the top rarely have the foresight to imagine their irreversible decline.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>