<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 14</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct14" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct14"><span id="page_126"/>CHAPTER 14</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Spare</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">‘The editing process was chaotic,’ recalls an editor at Penguin Random House describing the scene in Manhattan in early 2022. Drafts of chapters sent by Moehringer were distributed among several editors at all levels of seniority. Each editor rewrote the draft and returned their own versions. Adding to the confusion, the editors’ revised chapters became redundant because Moehringer had rewritten his original draft chapter and then had reworked it again after Harry and Moehringer’s wife, Shannon Welch, had also added comments. ‘Moehringer introduced chaos,’ observed an editor. ‘I discovered that we were working from several drafts of the same chapters.’</p>
<p class="txt">One origin of the problem was a disagreement between Moehringer and Harry about the book’s core theme – the Prince himself. To under-stand Harry, the British class system and the aristocracy, Moehringer was encouraged to visit Harry’s friends in Britain. Moehringer would write: ‘I interviewed the socks off . . . all the people in Harry’s inner circle, a vital phase in every ghosting job.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-229" id="en0-229" role="doc-noteref">229</a></sup> The friends he visited described not only Harry’s drinking, drugs and nightclubbing, but also his problems at school and with his parents. None of the interviews made the final version. Only Guy Pelly, among Harry’s many friends, merited <span id="page_127"/>a brief mention, while his polo friend Nacho Figueras was consigned to the acknowledgements.</p>
<p class="txt">Multiple pages written by Moehringer arrived at Penguin Random House with intimate details about Harry’s life in Britain, but without any context of the Prince living in a gilded cage. The editors never had the sense that Moehringer understood Harry’s life as a wayward multi-millionaire without a care about money, homelessness or unemployment. Instead, Moehringer focused on magnifying trifling incidents, such as his complaint about insufficient natural light into his basement home at Kensington Palace and arguments about a parking space. Harry condemned William for having a bigger bedroom as a child, cursed him for ignoring him at Eton and was plainly angry that William did not trust him to make a best man speech at his wedding dinner.</p>
<p class="txt">The gold dust for Moehringer and the editors was Harry’s graphic descriptions of successive shouting matches with Charles and William. The pages describing their fractured relationship sprang to life. Not least William ‘lunging’ at Harry’s shirt during their confrontation after Prince Philip’s funeral. Similarly, the editors were enthusiastic about Harry’s descriptions of his father as emotionally damaged and indecisive. To disparage the future king, Harry told Moehringer that Charles usually travelled with his childhood teddy bear, did yoga in his undershorts to cure his back pain and forever smelt things. ‘He must have been a bloodhound in another life,’ Moehringer inserted. The climax to Harry’s damnation of Charles, as told to Moehringer, was his father’s fear of being ‘overshadowed’ by Meghan, who was inevitably destined to ‘take centre stage’.</p>
<p class="txt">No one questioned Harry’s inaccurate assertion that Charles did not financially support him or William. Charles’s rebuke to Harry –‘I’m not made of money’ – rang true but ignored Harry’s request for even more than his annual £1 million allowance plus his living expenses.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_128"/>Moehringer appears to have rarely checked Harry’s version of events. Simple mistakes were unquestioningly included. ‘Now you’ve given me an heir and a “spare”,’ Charles allegedly told Diana in hospital after Harry’s birth, ‘my work is done.’ His father, recounted Harry, had then ‘gone off to meet his girlfriend’. But Diana told Andrew Morton, the most trustworthy reporter of Diana’s sentiments, that Charles had said, ‘Oh, it’s a boy and he’s even got rusty hair.’ Charles, according to Diana, left the hospital to play polo. Diana later told Richard Kay, another trusted journalist, that Harry’s birth marked the happiest period of their marriage. Charles’s relationship with Camilla resumed more than one year after Harry’s birth.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-230" id="en0-230" role="doc-noteref">230</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Among Harry’s other ‘vivid’ memories was the Queen Mother’s death in March 2002. The news, Harry said, was delivered to him by a courtier on ‘a bright and warm Easter’ at Eton: ‘Your Highness, the Queen Mother has died.’ In reality, Harry was skiing in Klosters in Switzerland. On an overcast day, Charles gave him the news. They immediately returned to London.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s more important ‘mistake’ was his reason to publish the book: to rebut ‘every lie published about him’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-231" id="en0-231" role="doc-noteref">231</a></sup> Newspapers, he told Moehringer, had accused him of ‘cheating in A-level art’. The media’s source was the admission by Harry’s art teacher at Eton that she had improved his exam answer. In Harry’s version, his demand that the Palace issue a denial for publication was refused by ‘cold-hearted’ officials. Harry was wrong. On that same day, newspapers published Clarence House’s and Eton’s official denials of the teacher’s confession as ‘untrue’ and ‘absurd’. The Palace’s dishonesty was not unusual. On Harry’s orders, Palace officials repeatedly lied to protect him, not least about his teenage usage of drugs.</p>
<p class="txt">Scrutinising Harry’s version of events was initially hampered by the difficulty of conducting interviews on Zoom. Once the Covid restrictions were abandoned, Moehringer headed to Montecito for <span id="page_129"/>intensive face-to-face conversations, where he would watch Harry assert that newspapers called him a ‘coward’ by ‘faking’ a knee injury on the eve of going into the army. Moehringer recorded the false accusation, but no newspaper published that claim. On the contrary, newspapers described ‘courageous’ Harry’s misery about missing his deployment because of the ‘unfortunate’ injury.</p>
<p class="txt">Similarly, Harry spoke at length about the media’s responsibility for causing the suicide of television presenter Caroline Flack, who took her own life in February 2020. The death of his friend, Harry told Moehringer, was rooted in ‘the relentless abuse at the hands of the press, year after year’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-232" id="en0-232" role="doc-noteref">232</a></sup> That was untrue. The coroner found that Flack killed herself because she was to be prosecuted for assaulting a boy-friend in the midst of an unhappy relationship. Her family did not in fact directly blame the media for her suicide.</p>
<p class="txt">As Harry recounted these false stories to Moehringer, his real agenda appeared to be proving how the racist media had persecuted Meghan, forcing him to flee the country. The harassment, he said, had started in 2016 – at the outset of their relationship. Meghan had walked from Kensington Palace to shop at the local Whole Foods shop. In Harry’s description, as she queued at the checkout she saw rows and rows of magazines and newspapers, all with shocking and disgusting headlines about her. Other shoppers noticed her, looked at the newspapers and shared ‘a horrible smile’ with the cashiers.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-233" id="en0-233" role="doc-noteref">233</a></sup> In fact, Whole Foods didn’t even stock newspapers or magazines. And in 2016, their relationship was still mysterious. The only person who spotted Meghan – because she was still unknown in London – was the <em>Daily Mail</em>’s diarist Richard Kay, who was by chance on Kensington High Street during an unplanned break from his nearby office. And that day Meghan did not feature on a single front page.</p>
<p class="txt">Among his complaints against the newspaper, Harry told Moehringer that Meghan’s legal claim against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> was subject to <span id="page_130"/>a media blackout. ‘In fact, it was barely covered at all,’ Harry said.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-234" id="en0-234" role="doc-noteref">234</a></sup> In truth, every newspaper devoted huge coverage to the case, especially the <em>Mail</em>.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">In January 2022, Harry’s antagonism towards the <em>Mail</em> propelled him to take a risk. In the early stages of his court case against the Home Office to secure police protection, a judge ruled that the case would not be heard in secret. Soon after, the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> proposed to publish a story headlined ‘Harry: Give Back My Bodyguards’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-235" id="en0-235" role="doc-noteref">235</a></sup> The newspaper reported that Harry had sued the government three months earlier, in September 2021, to restore his taxpayer-funded 24-hour protection. ‘Why,’ asked the <em>Mail on Sunday’</em>s commentator Sarah Vine, ‘should the British people continue to pay for two people who bad-mouth their previous employer all over town?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-236" id="en0-236" role="doc-noteref">236</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On Saturday night, shortly before the newspaper began printing, Schillings briefed the Press Association news agency to ‘set the facts straight’. Harry, according to Schillings, had offered to pay for his protection at the Sandringham summit. ‘That offer was dismissed,’ said Schillings, voicing Harry’s version. Schillings added an important proviso: Harry was still prepared to pay to protect his family when they visited Britain and he would sue the Home Office for refusing to allow him to pay personally for police protection.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-237" id="en0-237" role="doc-noteref">237</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Days later, Harry’s version about offering to pay for protection began to unravel. Edward Young recalled again that Harry had not made that offer at Sandringham. In fact, Young remembered the opposite. In an email, Harry had said that he didn’t have the money to pay for protection.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-238" id="en0-238" role="doc-noteref">238</a></sup> For those weary of Harry’s sermons against ‘online misinformation’, his ‘error’ was damning.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s position was also inconsistent. In the secret September 2021 court hearing of his case, Harry did not mention paying for his protection. <span id="page_131"/>He demanded that the Home Office reinstate his taxpayer-funded police protection. The confusion had been sown by Harry’s solicitors’ briefing to the Press Association.</p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s headline was blunt: ‘How Prince Harry tried to keep his legal fight with the government over police bodyguards a secret . . . then just minutes after the story broke, his PR machine tried to put a positive spin on the dispute.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-239" id="en0-239" role="doc-noteref">239</a></sup> Harry’s honesty was publicly challenged.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet Harry’s vendetta dropped on to the Palace at a difficult time, just a few days after officials had received bad news from America. A judge had ruled that the sex abuse case launched by Virginia Giuffre – a victim of the convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein – against Prince Andrew would be heard in court. Days later, the Queen stripped Andrew of his military honours, patronages and his title as His Royal Highness. To save the jubilee celebrations, Andrew had been cast into the wilderness and ordered to settle the case with Giuffre. Outsiders speculated that the settlement cost the Royal Family £12 million.</p>
<p class="txt">Embarrassingly, Charles was also embroiled in scandal. On the same day that Andrew became a private citizen, Scotland Yard announced it would investigate the offer of a knighthood and British citizenship to Mahfouz Marei Mubarak bin Mahfouz, a Saudi donor to Charles’s charity project, Dumfries House in Scotland. The offer had been made by Michael Fawcett, the trusted manager of Charles’s money-raising efforts for over twenty years.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles’s relationship with the Saudi businessman was awkward. Not least because in a secret and photographed ceremony in Buckingham Palace in 2016, Charles had awarded Mubarak a CBE. After the matter was exposed in November 2021, Charles denied any knowledge of Fawcett’s alleged offer of an honour for cash.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-240" id="en0-240" role="doc-noteref">240</a></sup> Fawcett was forced to resign from Charles’s foundation and conveniently found lucrative employment with a Lebanese businessman living in Knightsbridge. <span id="page_132"/>Without explanation, the police ended their investigation. If Fawcett had been prosecuted, the monarchy’s reputation would have been damaged.</p>
<p class="txt">To further embarrass Charles, during the uproar, Harry’s publicist revealed that Harry had received £50,000 from Mubarak in 2013 for Sentebale, a charity for children with HIV which Harry had created in 2006 in Botswana and Lesotho, a landlocked country in southern Africa.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-241" id="en0-241" role="doc-noteref">241</a></sup> But unlike Charles, Harry had cut off relations with Mubarak in 2015, despite the offer of £1 million for his charity. Mubarak’s condition was that Harry would first meet the businessman in Saudi Arabia and then receive the money. The donation appeared to be tainted by ‘cash for access’ – the precise charge Charles had faced over many years.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-242" id="en0-242" role="doc-noteref">242</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Then the publicity got even worse. The <em>Sunday Times</em> reported that Charles had accepted €3 million from the Qatari prime minister between 2011 and 2015. At private meetings, the millions were said to have been handed over to Charles in plastic shopping bags filled with banknotes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-243" id="en0-243" role="doc-noteref">243</a></sup> Already infamous for accepting millions of pounds from rich donors for his charities over the previous twenty-five years,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-244" id="en0-244" role="doc-noteref">244</a></sup> the story made Charles look grubby. Charles suspected that the latest exposés were linked to Harry’s legal warfare. Harry had fallen further under the influence of his lawyers, but both Harry and Schillings were beyond the Palace’s control.</p>
<p class="txt">Furious about the <em>Mail</em>’s accusation that, in Harry’s interpretation, he had ‘lied in his initial public statements’ about his offer to pay for police protection, Harry sued the newspaper for defamation. The <em>Mail</em>, complained Harry, had caused him ‘substantial harm, embarrassment and distress which is continuing’. The <em>Mail</em>’s report, added Harry, was an ‘attack on his honesty and integrity’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-245" id="en0-245" role="doc-noteref">245</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s misfortune was that the judge assigned to his case, Matthew Nicklin, was more supportive of the media than the four judges who had <span id="page_133"/>ruled in Meghan’s favour. At the first hurdle, Nicklin rejected Harry’s allegation that the <em>Mail</em> had accused him of lying. The newspaper’s lawyers, said the judge, had carefully avoided that pitfall. But Nicklin agreed that the article damaged Harry’s reputation by accusing him of intending ‘to mislead the public’. He later refused to resolve the case in Harry’s favour without a trial, speculating that the statements issued on Harry’s behalf could at a trial be described as ‘a masterclass in the art of spinning’ and in ‘misleading’ the public.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-246" id="en0-246" role="doc-noteref">246</a></sup> By slipping into a swamp of litigation, Harry was no longer the master of his own destiny.</p>
<p class="txt">At the heart of all four cases, against the Home Office and against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>, was Harry’s conviction that Palace officials were targeting him. By July 2022, Harry’s case against the government had cost taxpayers over £100,000. His own costs were over £200,000.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-247" id="en0-247" role="doc-noteref">247</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Money was of no concern to Harry. He was on a roll, convinced that he would slay all the dragons.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">At Penguin Random House’s Manhattan headquarters in summer 2022, still no one questioned Harry’s version of events. As Moehringer’s redrafts arrived to be edited, more errors were creeping into the script – for example, the assertion that the Queen’s corgis were descended from Queen Victoria’s reign, whereas they were introduced to the Royal Family in 1933. To weed out the slapdash, Sabele Editorial were hired as fact-checkers. Their owner, Hilary McClellen, would be thanked by Harry for ‘superb fact-checking’. The corgi fable would be published in the book.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s petulance had also crept into the script. Few Palace employees were more odious to Harry than Paul Burrell, Diana’s long-standing valet. Harry did not tell Moehringer how Burrell’s criminal trial for allegedly stealing a vast trove of Diana’s personal possessions had dramatically ended shortly before Burrell was about to give evidence <span id="page_134"/>in his own defence. Burrell’s testimony about ‘safeguarding’ Diana’s secret tape recordings of a former Palace valet’s allegations would have shattered the monarchy, endangering Prince Charles’s succession.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-248" id="en0-248" role="doc-noteref">248</a></sup> Months later, Burrell earned millions of pounds from his bestselling ghosted memoir filled with revelations about Diana’s love life. Harry damned Burrell’s book as ‘merely one man’s self-justifying, self-centring version of events’. Harry never considered that his own book would attract the same criticism.</p>
<p class="txt">By then, a senior rewriter under Ben Greenberg, Random House’s editor-in-chief, witnessed repeated clashes between Harry and Greenberg. ‘Harry was considered to be a difficult author,’ recalls the editor. Irritatingly, Harry had rejected a dozen cover pictures taken by Ramona Rosales, fuelling Greenberg’s complaint about Harry being ‘argumentative’ and ‘missing deadlines’.</p>
<p class="txt">Part of the problem, as one editor observed, was the ‘haphazard’ management of Moehringer. In his narrative, the playboy Prince appeared to be a beleaguered, insecure weakling. Every damnation he uttered would make a headline, but some editors believed that Moehringer’s drafts had not fully grasped Harry’s resentment of being the ‘spare’, not the heir. Seeking attention and love, he was breaking the bond of trust with his brother. Humiliatingly, Harry revealed that his ‘arch nemesis’, the future king, suffered ‘alarming baldness’ and had probably been circumcised.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-249" id="en0-249" role="doc-noteref">249</a></sup> Most pointedly, he revealed their brutal argument about Meghan in Nottingham Cottage’s kitchen, which resulted in Harry falling and breaking a pottery dog bowl and his necklace being ripped off. Photographs of the same kitchen showed a metal dog bowl.</p>
<p class="txt">‘There’s overkill,’ the editors agreed. ‘Too much about the tensions and disagreements between Harry and his brother and father. Harry’s saying the same thing again and again.’ Some of his explicit criticisms of other members of the Royal Family, including the Queen and Prince <span id="page_135"/>Philip, were too raw, a senior editor decided. The publishers’ motive was not to protect the Royal Family but to make the book readable.</p>
<p class="txt">To Harry’s great annoyance, Moehringer was told to cut out a number of the arguments. Harry apparently reported his fury to Meghan who, by then, had read so many versions that her interest was evaporating. As her involvement waned, Harry’s indignation increased. Occasionally, as he read an edited version of a bitter dispute, Harry demanded a deletion. Moehringer was angry and explained that those passages were the heart of his story – of Harry battling against a dysfunctional family. Sometimes Moehringer won, sometimes Harry. And then Harry changed his mind, somersaulting in every direction on deletion and inclusion.</p>
<p class="txt">Caught between his editors and Harry, Moehringer became ‘exasperated’: ‘My head was pounding, my jaw was clenched, and I was starting to raise my voice,’ wrote Moehringer. He explained to Harry, ‘Strange as it may seem, a memoir isn’t about you. It’s a story carved from your life, a particular series of events chosen because they have the greatest resonance for the widest range of people.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-250" id="en0-250" role="doc-noteref">250</a></sup> Harry was probably mystified.</p>
<p class="txt">‘But is it all true?’ an editor asked. ‘Factual errors,’ replied Moehringer, ‘can’t exist in an autobiography.’ Harry’s memory, Moehringer knew, was self-serving and faulty. Not least because he had learned from therapy that facts don’t matter. Only Harry’s version of the truth counted. In his mind, subjective belief cancelled out irrefutable facts.</p>
<p class="txt">The customary demands of publishing only provable facts went out of the window. The pretence was at best irrelevant and at worst unachievable. To give Harry his voice, regardless of the truth, they agreed with Moehringer to adopt what is known as Gonzo journalism. Made famous by the American writer Hunter S. Thompson in the 1970s, Gonzo journalism focuses on the author’s personal experiences and emotions. Any suggestion of objectivity is buried. Instead of the real truth, the author’s ‘voice’ is exaggerated and sarcasm is heightened.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_136"/>Gonzo journalism empowered Moehringer’s text to overflow with Harry’s self-pity about abuse, traumas and neglect, topped by his refusal to take responsibility for his own behaviour. In Moehringer’s words, Harry was oblivious of the real worldly challenges facing the Royal Family to survive and remain relevant. Instead, reflecting his deep unhappiness as the wretched ‘spare’, Moehringer cast Harry as the victim of the Palace and the press, bursting to stand out as a genuine hero, the soldier who cold-bloodedly killed twenty-five Taliban fighters – or, in Moehringer’s prose, ‘chess pieces’. That heroism justified the victim to wreak vengeance on his family.</p>
<p class="txt">To illuminate his Gonzo journalism, Moehringer inserted famous men’s thoughts into the text. In Andre Agassi’s autobiography <em>Open</em>, Moehringer had quoted Freud, Jung and mythology to explain the tennis champion’s tortured psyche. To bestow credibility to Harry’s ‘voice’, Moehringer cited the French philosopher/writer Jean-Paul Sartre and the novelist William Faulkner, both likely unknown to Harry but according to Meghan, among her favourites. Probably one of the few famous Frenchmen Harry could name was Charles de Gaulle. To justify the inaccuracies, Moehringer composed an unusual explanation for Harry: ‘There’s just as much truth in what I remember and how I remember it as there is in so-called objective facts.’ He added a quotation, ‘The line between memory and fact is blurry, between interpretation and fact.’</p>
<p class="txt">Neither Moehringer nor the editors appear to have reconciled Harry’s campaign against journalists’ falsehoods with his own justification for publishing fantasies about his family: ‘We often record emotion alone, all detail blurred into unreadable smear.’</p>
<p class="txt">The final arguments followed the lawyers’ demands. To avoid legal recrimination, the names of paparazzi photographers and some tabloid editors were removed. But two British newspaper editors particularly disliked by Harry were named: the <em>Mirror</em>’s Piers Morgan and the <em>Sun</em>’s Rebekah Brooks. Nicknamed by Moehringer as ‘Rehabber <span id="page_137"/>Kooks’, Brooks was described as ‘the main villain in the phone-hacking scandal’ – except that at the end of a criminal trial in 2014, she had been acquitted by a jury, to Harry’s ‘incredulity’. He was allowed by Penguin Random House’s lawyers to include as fair comment, ‘My faith in the whole system took a serious hit when that woman got off scot-free. They were letting this woman walk? And there was no furore from the public?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-251" id="en0-251" role="doc-noteref">251</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">One issue discussed by Random House’s senior editors was Meghan’s allegations about the Royal Family’s racism. In the aftermath of the Oprah Winfrey interview, Harry had come under enormous pressure, not only from Charles and William, but also from his aunt Anne and other family members. Knowing that Meghan’s description to Oprah Winfrey of the ‘conversations’ before Archie’s birth about his skin colour was untrue, Harry shifted her accusation to ‘unconscious bias’. That waffle made no sense to the editors. Amid a lot of argument, Harry agreed to remove all mention of the Royal Family’s alleged racism.</p>
<p class="txt">In June 2022, the editors assumed that the manuscript was nearly complete. The original 800 pages had been reduced to 400 pages. Among the deletions was Harry’s 25-page report to the Palace refuting the allegations of Meghan bullying her staff. Only the phrase that he had ‘demonstrated their lie’ remained.</p>
<p class="txt">To achieve simultaneous global publication in the late autumn, the manuscript would need to be translated into fifteen languages for both the book and the audio versions. The sales team at Penguin Random House reported advance orders suggesting that the book would be ‘big’. Some final details in the manuscript would be completed after Harry’s return from London to celebrate the Queen’s jubilee in June 2022, her seventieth year as monarch.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>