<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 15</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct15" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct15"><span id="page_138"/>CHAPTER 15</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Jubilee</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Harry had not yet agreed that he would be in London with Meghan and his children for the jubilee celebrations. Although his absence would be an unforgivable insult and damage his image, he didn’t appear to mind.</p>
<p class="txt">Stung by Harry’s criticisms, Edward Young was suspicious of Harry. Not only because of the Sussexes’ anti-royal publicity blitz but for his conduct after visiting the Queen in Windsor in April 2022. He had been on his way from Los Angeles to Holland for the Invictus Games. By any measure, the Games were one of Harry’s few achievements. Launched in London in 2014, they were staged to encourage injured servicemen to take up sport to help recover from their wounds. In the first competition, four hundred men and women from thirteen countries contested ten sports over four days. A quarter of the competitors were British. The highlight of the second Games in Orlando in 2016 was the visit of Barack and Michelle Obama.</p>
<p class="txt">In 2022, the Games were supported by President Biden’s wife, Jill, and other political leaders. Harry had met Jill Biden in 2013 in Colorado where he was visiting the Warrior Games, the inspiration for Invictus Games. She attended the 2014 Invictus Games in London and the 2016 Games in Orlando, Florida.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-252" id="en0-252" role="doc-noteref">252</a></sup> On his way to the fifth Games <span id="page_139"/>in The Hague, Harry could expect an ecstatic welcome. But not when he arrived in London.</p>
<p class="txt">The Queen was still critical of Harry’s decision to move to California. ‘Turning one’s back on duty,’ recalled the Queen’s friend Lady Elizabeth Anson, ‘is completely alien to the Queen and she has been very hurt by it all.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-253" id="en0-253" role="doc-noteref">253</a></sup> Contrary to Harry’s version, the Queen was also critical of the Sussexes before their wedding. ‘The Queen,’ Anson said, ‘was very upset by how Harry behaved and some of his demands. I remember her being rather upset by how beastly Harry was being. Their relationship was quite badly damaged by it all . . . He was rude to her for ten minutes.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-254" id="en0-254" role="doc-noteref">254</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Their relationship further deteriorated after Harry’s appearance on the Oprah Winfrey special. And there was the prospect of more denunciations to come. Harry, the Queen feared, was destroying the mystique of the Crown with his repeated media performances. The cool reception of the Sussexes by the Queen’s courtiers in Windsor Castle in April 2022 reflected the family’s suspicions.</p>
<p class="txt">For his part, Harry publicly denied any acrimony. But he sensed he was being ranked as an outsider. To reassert his importance, arriving in The Hague, Harry unexpectedly agreed to be interviewed by America’s NBC TV. His timing appeared calculated to overshadow the Queen’s ninety-sixth birthday and the publication of a new photograph of the monarch. In case his interview failed to dominate the news, his publicist Toya Holness also arranged a photocall of him with Meghan. The Duchess, briefed her publicist, was wearing jewellery worth £300,000, including a Cartier watch owned by Diana.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-255" id="en0-255" role="doc-noteref">255</a></sup> That was all froth compared to Harry’s comments to NBC about his grandmother’s sentiments during their private meeting: ‘We have a really special relationship; we talk about things she can’t talk about with anybody else.’ With a jibe at Edward Young, he added: ‘I’m just making sure that she’s, you know, protected and got the right people around her.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘Harry’s Game,’ commented <em>The Times</em> about the NBC interview, <span id="page_140"/>showed that the exile had ‘descended into self-pity and hypocrisy’. His appearance, the newspaper concluded, was ‘narcissistic’. The Sussexes had ‘sought to manipulate and profit from the media coverage they profess to despise. He’s fond of milking his connections when it suits. The emerging consensus about this once highly popular royal is that California is welcome to him.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-256" id="en0-256" role="doc-noteref">256</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After embarrassing the Queen, it appeared that Harry also targeted the Cambridges. Just after Kate and William met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, the Sussexes announced their contribution to a Ukrainian food charity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-257" id="en0-257" role="doc-noteref">257</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry and Meghan evidently believed they were winning the family war and dangled the prospect that they would not come to London in June for the jubilee because of ‘security issues’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-258" id="en0-258" role="doc-noteref">258</a></sup> Palace officials feared Harry would repeat his refusal to attend the memorial service for Prince Philip at Westminster Abbey on 29th March because there was no armed protection. Harry was ‘unable to return home’, Schillings had told the Home Office, because it was ‘too dangerous’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-259" id="en0-259" role="doc-noteref">259</a></sup> To placate Harry for the jubilee, Ravec agreed to provide special cars and protection. The Royal Family contributed about £160,000 for the Sussexes, their children, bodyguards and staff to fly on a twelve-seater Bombardier Global Express jet to Farnborough, thirty-five miles from London.</p>
<p class="txt">Agreeing the details of the Sussexes’ locations during the four days of celebration was also challenging. On the Queen’s orders, Harry was told to keep a ‘low profile’. Inevitably, he would not meet his brother. Nor could he wear a uniform. The Queen had also decided that he and Meghan would sit apart from the Royal Family for the Thanksgiving service in St Paul’s Cathedral – on the other side of the aisle, in the second row beside his cousins Beatrice and Eugenie. They would be invited to the reception in Guildhall afterwards, but Harry was told that the family would prefer they did not come. By ‘family’, Harry assumed William and Kate had objected.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_141"/>During Trooping the Colour on Horse Guards Parade, Harry would be located with thirty minor royals in the Duke of Wellington’s office and could watch from a window. Afterwards, he would be invited for lunch at Buckingham Palace but again he was not expected to come. If he did, he would not stand on the balcony in view of the public.</p>
<p class="txt">In exchange, he and his family would meet the Queen in Windsor, a short drive from their home, Frogmore. For Harry, being with his grandmother was the prize he sought in order to reassert his credibility for both his book and the Netflix series.</p>
<p class="txt">London was lit by sunshine on Thursday 2nd June, the first day of the jubilee celebrations. Harry and Meghan showed no remorse as they came face to face with those they were to defame in the yet-still-unseen Netflix series and his book. Focused on promoting strife, regardless of the casualties, the couple appeared determined to destroy the magic of the Royal Family and sabotage William’s inheritance, the prospect of revenge and money suffocating any loyalties. ‘Frosty’ was one eyewitness’s recollection of the atmosphere between the Sussexes and their family.</p>
<p class="txt">Enabling herself to be seen by photographers during Trooping the Colour, Meghan pushed herself close to a tiny window. Hours later, the ailing Queen, suffering ‘mobility problems’, stood smiling on Buckingham Palace’s balcony surrounded by the Cambridges and their children, looking down on an adoring multitude along the Mall. The media was captivated by the Queen’s four-year-old great-grandson Louis clasping his hands over his ears as RAF jets swooped over the Palace. By then, the Sussexes were back in Frogmore. The image on the balcony of the monarchy’s secure succession for the next three generations would likely have been particularly irksome.</p>
<p class="txt">Sidelined, the Sussexes were ignored by the Royal Family the following day in St Paul’s Cathedral. The incapacitated Queen had stayed in Windsor. Visiting the monarch afterwards was the climax of the Sussexes’ visit. Harry needed photographs of himself and Lilibet with <span id="page_142"/>his grandmother. They would be gold dust for his book and TV series. But just as he was about to enter the room, a lady-in-waiting told Harry that ‘at Her Majesty’s request’ no photographs would be allowed. At the same time, several members of his family left the room. The chill remained until the Sussexes departed and drove back to Frogmore. After discreetly holding a birthday party for Lilibet, they returned to California.</p>
<p class="txt">Reconciliation had not been discussed. Few believed the Sussexes’ spokeswoman’s whisper that the Queen had invited the Sussexes to Balmoral in the summer.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-260" id="en0-260" role="doc-noteref">260</a></sup> More believed a family member’s warning. If Harry’s book was published during the Queen’s lifetime, there would be ‘no way back’. Nor, he was told, would he be forgiven if Netflix used any footage of the jubilee celebrations.</p>
<p class="txt">Members of the family also mentioned that the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, had visited Frogmore. An insider reported that the Archbishop had said to Harry, ‘Sir, this is a difficult time for you and for them.’ After listening to Harry complain about unequal and unfair treatment, the cleric reported back to the family that both sides were ‘talking past each other’. Charles was not surprised. ‘There was a lot of anger thrashing around,’ said an advisor. Charles agreed: ‘It’s impossible to have a rational discussion with Harry.’</p>
<p class="txt">On his return to America, Harry called Moehringer. He said that despite his previous insistence, some poisonous exchanges between himself and Charles and William should be removed after all. ‘The hard bit was taking things out,’ Harry would later admit. ‘There are some things that have happened, especially between me and my brother, and to some extent between me and my father, that I just don’t want the world to know. Because I don’t think they would ever forgive me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-261" id="en0-261" role="doc-noteref">261</a></sup> Random House’s editors were irritated. There was no talk of the book being cancelled. Publication was set for the eve of Christmas.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>