<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 16</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct16" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct16"><span id="page_143"/>CHAPTER 16</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Archetypes</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Returning to Montecito in an unforgiving mood, the Sussexes watched Liz Garbus’s latest edit of the six-part Netflix series – now simply titled, unoriginally, <em>Harry &amp; Meghan</em>, which was scheduled to be released on 8th December 2022. Proud to be ‘woke’, Meghan had expected Garbus to portray her courageous ambition to champion injustices in society. Taking her cue from ‘Meghan the Warrior’, Garbus told the story of an innocent, loyal couple loved by the public but utterly traduced by white monarchists.</p>
<p class="txt">Garbus cast Meghan as the champion of human rights, egalitarianism, feminism and gender equality – her conviction that boyhood is ‘fluid’ and that boys should challenge masculinity. Above all, Garbus characterised Meghan as a leader of identity politics – against racism and exposing the oppression of black people <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-262" id="en0-262" role="doc-noteref">262</a></sup> – and was encouraged to blame the Royal Family’s deep-rooted racial prejudice for the Sussexes’ flight from Britain. In Garbus’s version, Meghan’s racial background had influenced the Royal Family and Palace officials to deny her protection.</p>
<p class="txt">Posing as guilt-ridden – by his white skin and his racist family – Harry played into the hands of critics anxious to undermine Britain. To emphasise the Queen’s racism – as a direct descendant of racist slave traders – Harry did not object to Garbus ignoring the lifelong dedication <span id="page_144"/>of the Queen and Charles to embrace Britain’s minority races and the Commonwealth subjects as equals. Unaware of the circumstances, Harry allowed Garbus to prejudicially edit his grandmother’s pledge to the Empire and Commonwealth on becoming Queen in 1947 about dedicating ‘my life . . . to your service’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-263" id="en0-263" role="doc-noteref">263</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To boost the Sussexes’ arguments about the Royal Family’s racism, the Netflix producers recorded interviews with a black historian, Kehinde Andrews, and a mixed-race one, David Olusoga, and the anti-royalist, left-wing journalist Afua Hirsch. Hirsch had advocated the destruction of Nelson’s Column because the admiral was a white supremacist.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-264" id="en0-264" role="doc-noteref">264</a></sup> As an outright supporter of Black Lives Matter, Olusoga urged the demolition of all statues deemed to be tainted by slavery. In his <em>Empire</em> series for BBC TV, Olusoga presented a particularly negative opinion of British history. Aspects of Olusoga’s description of the British anti-Mau Mau campaign in Kenya during the 1950s was condemned in the <em>Daily Telegraph</em> as ‘untrue’, ‘ignores or falsifies basic truths’ and offering ‘a truly distorted account of the history’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-265" id="en0-265" role="doc-noteref">265</a></sup> Similarly, Andrews believed, ‘The Royal Family is perhaps the most identifiable symbol of whiteness in the world’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-266" id="en0-266" role="doc-noteref">266</a></sup> and damned the Queen and her family for continuing to represent imperialism because the murals and statues in the royal palaces reeked of the profits from slavery.</p>
<p class="txt">According to Kehinde Andrews, the Queen was ‘the world’s number one symbol of white supremacy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-267" id="en0-267" role="doc-noteref">267</a></sup> ‘Nothing has changed’ since the end of the British Empire, said Andrews in the Netflix series, apart from the Royal Family’s ‘better PR’. ‘If you look at the black people in the Commonwealth,’ he said, ‘their conditions are almost just as bad as they were fifty and one hundred years ago.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-268" id="en0-268" role="doc-noteref">268</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the minds of these historians whom the Sussexes had recruited, the Queen’s proudest achievement – the Commonwealth – was Britain’s secret ‘privilege club’ to protect its commercial interests. Their ‘independence’, granted in the 1960s, was a fallacy. Andrews highlighted <span id="page_145"/>a direct line from the slave trade to the Commonwealth. Renamed by him as ‘Empire.2’, it was supposedly a fig leaf for exploiting all black countries. Andrews ignored the inconvenient fact that the majority of the Commonwealth’s two and a half billion citizens are not black and that India’s economy has grown exponentially since 1948. Although every country is free to leave the Commonwealth, more nations have joined it, including Gabon and Mozambique, than chosen to opt out of it.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry could not understand that distortion is a familiar weapon, but Meghan did consciously support Andrews’s anti-whiteness. Archewell’s Black History Month, which she supervised, even suggested that her followers should read the philosophy of the controversial American Marxist Malcolm X.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-269" id="en0-269" role="doc-noteref">269</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Andrews massaged the suggestion that every grievance suffered by Meghan could be blamed on her skin colour. All Britain’s media, said Andrews, were united against Meghan as ‘an angry black woman trope’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-270" id="en0-270" role="doc-noteref">270</a></sup> The tabloids – or the ‘vultures’, according to Doria Ragland, Meghan’s mother – had driven Meghan to depression and suicide. But Andrews and Garbus failed to illustrate their assertion with a single article on a tabloid page. The newspaper reports about bullying her staff were not mentioned, nor was their accuracy disputed.</p>
<p class="txt">To reflect Meghan’s denunciations of the racist Royal Family, Afua Hirsch decried white royals as ‘awkward’ visitors to black countries. Her proof was the Cambridges’ visit to Jamaica in March 2022, during a Caribbean tour to celebrate the Queen’s jubilee, organised by Jamaica’s anti-monarchist government. The Cambridges were driven through the capital, Kingston, standing in an open-topped Land Rover. Wearing a white bemedalled uniform, William’s colonial image was inappropriate. According to the Jamaican government’s plan, their vehicle stopped near a field filled with children. Initially, the Cambridges walked over to shake children’s hands outstretched through a mesh fence. The optics <span id="page_146"/>indicated imperial privilege and racist Britain. After they realised the mistake, the Cambridges walked to the other side of the fence to meet the welcoming children. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Garbus didn’t use those shots of the Cambridges. Instead, to reflect Harry’s agenda to harm William as a modern monarch, Netflix included the cringe-making televised dressing-down of the Cambridges by Jamaica’s prime minister Andrew Holness. Jamaica, Holness told William, would vote to become a republic. Juxtaposing those images reflected the producers’ delight in hammering home Meghan’s condemnation of the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">The climax was Meghan recounting her unexpected first meeting with the Queen during a drive in 2016 towards Windsor’s Royal Lodge. In the car, Harry had said that Meghan would need to curtsy. To dramatise her story to the camera, Meghan exaggerated her curtsy to the Queen as if both had featured in a medieval drama. Harry silently watched his wife mock his grandmother. ‘It was surreal,’ said Meghan with a mischievous glint. ‘I just thought it was a joke. I didn’t know what I was doing.’</p>
<p class="txt">In that sequence, she revealed her anti-monarchism, ridiculing any respect towards the Royal Family. One member of the Netflix film crew had wondered whether Harry would request the scene to be reshot to protect his grandmother. Another speculated that it would be entirely dropped. Neither happened. Instead, Harry commented in the film: ‘There’s a hierarchy of the family.’ Then, in rehearsed lines, he articulated a revelatory explanation about Meghan: ‘She sacrificed everything she ever knew. The freedom she had, to join me in my world. [In return] I sacrificed everything to join her in her world.’</p>
<p class="txt">For Meghan, one highlight of the series was the twenty hours of private videos given to Garbus. Whether those sequences were genuinely contemporaneous, the best of several reshoots or staged much later was impossible for viewers to know. A key sequence was allegedly filmed while Harry was at the Sandringham summit in 2020. Meghan had <span id="page_147"/>flown to her home on Vancouver Island two days before. ‘H is in London and I’m here,’ she said tearfully to the camera. ‘I don’t know where to begin.’ After adding that Harry was negotiating their options for leaving the family at Sandringham, she was next shown with a towel wrapped around her hair: ‘I just really want to get to the other side of this.’ There was a dramatic pause. Sitting motionless, she added emotionally, ‘I don’t know what to say any more.’ Filmed by an unnamed professional, its authenticity was questionable.</p>
<p class="txt">To sceptics, so much of their self-produced film was uncertain, not least their own judgement of credibility. To verify their complaint about persecution by the paparazzi, the Sussexes were shown nervously looking through the rear window of their moving car while being driven in California. Sitting in the back of a limousine, both were breathlessly narrating their escape from a paparazzo who was apparently pursuing them. Except, as Meghan eventually admitted, no one was chasing them. So much of their story proved to be self-invention.</p>
<p class="txt">‘People see me as a real-life princess,’ Meghan pronounced during the summer of 2022.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-271" id="en0-271" role="doc-noteref">271</a></sup> As the Sussexes conducted their assault on the Royal Family with the filming of their imminent Netflix series and Harry’s autobiography was being completed, Meghan continued her quest to establish herself as a global brand. Denied video footage of herself with the Queen, she seemed to want to be compared to Diana – relevant, revered and heroic.</p>
<p class="txt">‘So much of what Meghan is and how she is,’ said Harry supportively, ‘is so similar to my mum.’ Mentioning Diana usually silenced the critics. When Harry spoke about a photo of Diana with Nelson Mandela given to him by Archbishop Tutu or drew a comparison of the treatment of Meghan and Diana by the media and the Royal Family, he would say Meghan ‘shared’ his mother’s fate.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-272" id="en0-272" role="doc-noteref">272</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Bizarrely, Harry said that he had believed, at one time, that Diana faked her death to escape the media. He spoke about an encounter with <span id="page_148"/>a leopard in Botswana as a ‘signal’ from Diana. He had also asked a psychic to contact his mother who reported Diana’s riposte, ‘I’m with Harry right now.’ Her son was ‘living the life she couldn’t’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-273" id="en0-273" role="doc-noteref">273</a></sup> He introduced Meghan to his mother at her grave at Althorp, the Spencer family home, and he left Meghan to seek ‘clarity’ and ‘guidance’ by touching the gravestone. On Meghan’s insistence, Garbus included a sequence of Meghan showing Lilibet a photograph of ‘your grandmother’. Pertinently, she didn’t do the same with Archie.</p>
<p class="txt">After sober reflection, most dismissed the similarity between Diana and Meghan. Diana, a nineteen-year-old virginal aristocrat, was deceived by the prospect of blissful marriage and had once, after discovering the reality, genuinely attempted suicide by falling down a staircase. Even the aristocratic Diana Spencer felt isolated among the Windsors. Whereas Meghan, a 36-year-old divorcee, would have been able to calculate, after countless relationships, precisely the advantages of marrying a world-famous prince. Meghan’s forlorn attempt to equal Diana crumbled. Without Diana’s natural nobility, electric presence and genuine humanity, Meghan’s ambitions were even sparking descriptions of her as an imposter.</p>
<p class="txt">Without Diana’s natural advantages, Meghan needed to forge her own celebrity. Personal success, she knew, depended on separating her brand from Harry’s. Although she delivered the carefully rehearsed line that she and Harry were ‘like salt and pepper – we always move together,’ she planned in future to generate publicity focused on herself. The Netflix series would be their last joint media production. She would only appear with Harry at public events if it made sense for her own brand. Or as a walk-on part to reinforce her royalty. ‘You wanna come and say “Hi”?’ she had laughed at Harry during her fortieth birthday broadcast. Outside a window, the jester husband was seen juggling balls. And nothing more.</p>
<p class="txt">Launched in August 2022, Meghan’s first solo breakthrough was a <span id="page_149"/>twelve-part Spotify series called <em>Archetypes</em>, alias ‘Labels that try to hold women back’. By identifying the disparaging words attached to women, Meghan promised she would trace the origins of how stereotypes ‘shaped the narratives’ of women’s lives. She expected the series to persuade the world to recognise her worth. It was planned as a defining moment, establishing Meghan’s brand in the media as a brave, powerful, sophisticated, incisive heroic feminist. To those who told her she was ‘lucky [Harry] chose you’, Meghan retorted: ‘That’s a typical gendered archetype and stereotype’ – because ‘he was lucky I chose him’.</p>
<p class="txt">Keen to be ‘understood and seen’, she told <em>Variety</em> magazine during a promotional interview that her series broke down the ‘harmful’ labels attached to her. Listeners would reassess her as ‘a real person’ and easily recognise how she ‘laughs and asks questions and approaches things with curiosity’. The arduously rewritten template for <em>Archetypes</em> revealed her imagination: ‘I loved digging deep for intelligent, meaningful conversations with my diverse and inspiring guests, laughing and learning with them. It has been such a labour of love.’</p>
<p class="txt">But the enthusiastic team of women hired by Spotify and Archewell to produce the shows discovered the opposite. Four months into the project, the production team wilted. Weeks had been spent discussing with Meghan ‘a big theme that would explain the world’. Gradually they discovered that Meghan ‘backtracked on ideas’, ‘watered them down’ and then ‘had no ideas’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-274" id="en0-274" role="doc-noteref">274</a></sup> As deadlines approached, eighteen months after signing the contract, Meghan panicked. Many celebrities she approached with handwritten invitations, including Taylor Swift, rejected the opportunity to star alongside her.</p>
<p class="txt">The team discovered that the actress ‘couldn’t turn the mic on and talk’. She was not a natural probing interviewer able to elicit revelations and headlines. Like most actors, Meghan could only deliver the lines written for her. During interviews, she focused on herself, unintentionally highlighting her disinclination for self-mockery. Believing that her fame <span id="page_150"/>transformed her into a world leader, she equated her marriage to a prince as an achievement as high as Serena Williams winning twenty-three Grand Slam singles titles. She was ill-equipped to discuss serious issues with genuine stars.</p>
<p class="txt">During the first eleven minutes of her first interview with Serena Williams, Meghan expounded on the challenges faced by a rich and successful woman. Female ambition, she complained, was equated with pushiness. Yet she was talking about criticism of herself rather than the great tennis champion.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-275" id="en0-275" role="doc-noteref">275</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In Buckingham Palace, Meghan explained, ‘ambition is a terrible, terrible thing’. Williams patiently listened to Meghan blame the Royal Family for stifling her talents and potential. In her jargon – ‘that’s dimensionality’ – she explained the hardship of life as a duchess. Why, she asked rhetorically, should she have met the public during official duties without extra pay? Unpaid service was clearly not seen as a proper reward for years of struggle on the fringes of Hollywood.</p>
<p class="txt">To illustrate the perceived horror of Palace life, Meghan described how four-month-old Archie narrowly missed a nursery blaze caused by a malfunctioning heater during their 2019 tour of South Africa. ‘Everyone’s in tears, everyone’s shaken,’ recounted Meghan. And to her disgust, after the fire, she was forced by her staff ‘to leave Archie’ to complete the day’s visits. ‘This doesn’t make sense,’ she said.</p>
<p class="txt">In reality, Archie was nowhere near the room, was never in danger and there was no panic.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-276" id="en0-276" role="doc-noteref">276</a></sup> Her protest sat oddly with her self-description in the series of being ‘a working mom’. In the working tour of South Africa, a phoney alarm was not a reason to disappoint her hosts.</p>
<p class="txt">Her producers found Meghan’s pronouncements baffling, soon realising she had nothing original to say. There was no deep meaning to Meghan, they concluded. ‘It’s labels and no substance,’ complained one producer. Frustrated by her shortcomings, Meghan lashed out at her team. ‘She could be really, really awful,’ one producer told <em>Vanity <span id="page_151"/>Fair</em>. If ‘things didn’t go her way, some employees felt mistreated’. One employee disappeared for ‘long-term therapy’ and others took extended breaks. Their complaints were identical to those voiced by her Kensington Palace staff four years earlier – and vehemently denied by Meghan as a ‘calculated smear campaign on someone who has been the target of bullying herself’. Harry had cast the criticism as a Palace plot to depict his wife as a ‘tyrant’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-277" id="en0-277" role="doc-noteref">277</a></sup> At the time, Meghan’s battles with the Spotify team were suppressed by non-disclosure agreements. Her employees feared the ultra-litigious Sussexes would ruin their careers.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ threats were laced with contradictions. Meghan launched one <em>Archetypes</em> interview with a fulsome description of ‘her morning rush’ – how she got her children up, made breakfast and sent the children to school while also feeding ‘all three of the dogs’. Posing as the stereotypical American mother, she said repeatedly, ‘I love doing it.’ Then she read out a crafted observation: ‘How crushing the guilt of expectations can become.’</p>
<p class="txt">Hadley Freeman, the <em>Sunday Times</em> columnist, summarised the Duchess’s dilemma: ‘Meghan actually wants to be a celebrity without any sense of irony, given how much her own success exceeded her talents . . . Meghan is a product of her own era, in that she has the entitlement of a celebrity but the talents of a nobody . . . Against the odds she found her way to the royals, the perfect pedestal for a narcissist.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-278" id="en0-278" role="doc-noteref">278</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To fix Meghan’s brand, her publicist organised a series of interviews. The first was with Allison Davis, an African-American writing for <em>The Cut</em>, a New York magazine. Meghan assumed that the cover story, to be published on the twenty-fifth anniversary of Diana’s death, would be sympathetic. Despite telling Davis, ‘I don’t read any press,’ Meghan had carefully rehearsed her statements.</p>
<p class="txt">Before her marriage, Meghan had unsuccessfully tried to create an image of herself as a serious philanthropist. But in her groundbreaking interview in 2017 with Sam Kashner for <em>Vanity Fair</em>’s cover story, <span id="page_152"/>‘Wild About Harry’, the writer had profiled an opportunistic actress. Meghan complained to the magazine’s editor. ‘I felt manipulated and betrayed,’ Kashner said afterwards.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-279" id="en0-279" role="doc-noteref">279</a></sup> Yet now, Davis’s treatment of Meghan was even more critical than Kashner’s. ‘At one point in our conversation,’ Davis wrote, ‘instead of answering a question she will suggest how I might transcribe the noises she’s making.’ Without the right words for her feelings, she was making ‘guttural sounds’ or ‘just moaning’.</p>
<p class="txt">During the interview, Meghan asked whether the journalist wanted ‘to know a secret’. Glancing around to ensure that no one would overhear this privileged information, Meghan revealed, ‘I’m getting back on Instagram.’ Davis derided Meghan for having ‘delivered a nothing with such gravitas’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-280" id="en0-280" role="doc-noteref">280</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Race might have united the two women, especially Meghan’s accusation that Britain’s tabloids were ‘calling my children the n-word’. Undoubtedly aware of the impact such a statement would have, Meghan alleged that she was treated as a ‘black woman’ for the first time after she began dating Harry. Until then, she had been treated as mixed race. Upping the stakes, she characterised herself to Davis as the hero of black women. Her wedding, she fantasised, had stirred the same ‘rejoicing in South Africa’s streets as when Mandela was released from prison’ in 1990.</p>
<p class="txt">Two years after leaving Britain, she revealed that her anger towards the Royal Family had not subsided. ‘Still healing’ from causing an ‘upset to the hierarchy’, she and Harry agreed that his family should ask for forgiveness. ‘I think forgiveness is really important,’ said Meghan. ‘It takes a lot more energy to not forgive. But it takes a lot of effort to forgive,’ she continued. The Royal Family faced a blood-curdling threat: ‘I’ve never had to sign anything that restricts me from talking. I can say anything.’ Revealing that she had kept a diary during her years in London, she gave a warning about her own autobiography: ‘I have a lot <span id="page_153"/>to say until I don’t. Sometimes, as they say, the silent part is still part of the song.’</p>
<p class="txt">Three weeks later, Meghan must have been flummoxed by Davis’s disobliging article, and why Davis did not respond to her appeal to the sentiment of two black women fighting the same cause? Her flattery had been wasted. Davis had laughed in the face of Meghan’s self-importance.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan fired another shot. A few weeks before the launch of the Netflix series, <em>Variety</em> magazine’s cover story ‘Power of Women’ featured the Duchess. The high point would be her appearance at a <em>Variety</em> gala in Los Angeles. A hyped-up Meghan met the interviewer Matt Donnelly at the San Ysidro ranch, an expensive Montecito resort overlooking the Pacific owned by Ty Warner, a billionaire toy manufacturer, and somewhere Meghan had enjoyed eating before. Her bodyguards sat at a separate table. In her best performing style, Meghan patiently modelled a succession of outfits while charming Donnelly. Tasked to write positively about Meghan, Donnelly highlighted her ‘softness, playfulness, laughter and silliness’ and never questioned whether the relaxed, chatty actress was playing him as she ‘revealed’ her lifestyle. Of her family life she confessed: ‘We do feel joyful.’ As for so many Californians, ‘joy’ had become Meghan’s buzzword.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-281" id="en0-281" role="doc-noteref">281</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s ‘chapter of joy’ explained her new purpose in life. Invented by Meghan’s new hero, the bestselling Texan self-help author Brené Brown, the expression had been introduced to Meghan by the actress Mindy Kaling, who was close to Kamala Harris, the Californian lawyer and Democrat politician.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-282" id="en0-282" role="doc-noteref">282</a></sup> ‘Joy’ would also become the 2024 election campaign slogan of Vice President Harris, alias the ‘President of Joy’.‘Let us choose jooooy,’ screeched Oprah Winfrey at Harris’s election rally to show that the politics of joy underscored Harris’s authenticity – and Meghan’s.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-283" id="en0-283" role="doc-noteref">283</a></sup> ‘I think if you try to manufacture something like joy,’ said a Harris campaign manager, ‘it can go wrong because it’s fake. I think the reason why it’s resonating with people is because it’s authentic.’</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_154"/>The word ‘authenticity’, like ‘joy’, was often uttered by Meghan. The result was not always positive. In the London <em>Times</em>, Trevor Phillips wrote, ‘Today neither Meghan nor Harry can utter a word without provoking derision.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-284" id="en0-284" role="doc-noteref">284</a></sup> An increasing number of Americans began to echo the British broadcaster’s scepticism.</p>
<p class="txt">Most Americans had accepted Meghan’s account to Oprah Winfrey about her rejection by a racist Royal Family. But one year later, the mood had changed. Meghan’s high expectations for her Spotify series and <em>The Cut</em> article had misfired. Among Americans who respected the Queen, Meghan’s star was waning. Singer Mariah Carey gently mocked Meghan as a ‘diva’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-285" id="en0-285" role="doc-noteref">285</a></sup> A <em>New York Post</em> headline was unfriendly: ‘Toddler and Tiara: Spoiled Princess Meghan Still Whining about Royal Family’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-286" id="en0-286" role="doc-noteref">286</a></sup> Kamala Harris’s campaign managers rejected Meghan’s offer of help, fearing a backlash.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-287" id="en0-287" role="doc-noteref">287</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Harry hoped to reverse the increasingly disenchanted image of the Sussexes as an unending grievance machine. Appearing at the United Nations in New York on Nelson Mandela Day, there was so much for Harry to say. Spurred on by Meghan to generate global publicity, he linked Diana to South Africa’s statesman. Harry’s theme was Africa paying the price for decisions made by rich white countries. ‘Our world is on fire again,’ said Harry. ‘Our world needs to save humanity. How many of us feel battered, helpless in the face of the seemingly endless stream of disasters and devastation?’ With humanity allegedly on the verge of catastrophe, Harry directed his assault against the media. For ‘the few were weaponising lies and disinformation at the expense of many’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry found an appreciative audience, but then the mask slipped. He equated the invasion of Ukraine with the recent US Supreme Court decision reversing Roe v Wade, the ‘constitutional right’ to abortion. Dressed in Givenchy in the front row, Meghan smiled as Harry attacked <span id="page_155"/>the Supreme Court judges for their ‘global assault on democracy and freedom’. Though indeed controversial, in reality the judges had ruled that instead of Congress in Washington DC, each state should individually decide its own abortion laws.</p>
<p class="txt">Hours later at a gala dinner in Rome, Samuel Alito, the American Supreme Court judge who wrote the abortion judgement, mocked Harry. How, asked the famous judge, could anyone connect his ruling with the Russian invasion of Ukraine? The answer, said the judge, was obvious. Only a multi-millionaire enjoying a remarkably privileged life could invent a link between abortion and the media. In Alito’s opinion, only a prince divorced from reality could similarly imagine that all Africans believed life was a burden.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-288" id="en0-288" role="doc-noteref">288</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Oblivious to Alito’s criticism, Harry was pleased with his performance. After all, Meghan would have surely reassured him that the applause was genuine. It’s clear how badly Harry reacted to rejection. He was still bewildered why Spotify had declined his most recent proposal to interview global leaders deemed to be sociopaths. His proposed list of guests included Vladimir Putin about his ‘childhood traumas’, Donald Trump about his childhood, Pope Francis about fatherhood and Mark Zuckerberg about his life. Harry justified his proposal: ‘I have a very bad childhood trauma. Obviously. My mother was murdered. What is it about me that didn’t make me one of these bad guys?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-289" id="en0-289" role="doc-noteref">289</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The real mystery was why Harry imagined that Putin would agree to be interviewed, or whether Harry had even heard Trump’s description of him as ‘whipped’ and ‘an embarrassment’. Or did Harry recall Meghan damning Trump as ‘divisive’ and a ‘misogynist’? Rather than understand that only hard graft would land access to those personalities, Harry imagined that the world would comply with his wishes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-290" id="en0-290" role="doc-noteref">290</a></sup> After disgruntled employees revealed Harry’s fantasies, his spokesman was ordered to ‘vehemently deny that Harry had ever made those proposals <span id="page_156"/>to Spotify’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-291" id="en0-291" role="doc-noteref">291</a></sup> Insiders, though, were not surprised by Harry’s attitude towards the truth.</p>
<p class="txt">Anticipating the imminent Netflix series and the appearance of his book, Harry appeared to harbour no doubts about his righteousness. Streaming and publication would happen during the Queen’s life, despite the inevitable grief to be heaped on his 96-year-old grandmother. Harry’s disloyalty to his flesh and blood did not occur to him. Even during that week he warned a Los Angeles audience about a ‘sickness in politics’. As he described the selfishness of ‘service to others being sacrificed for personal gain’, he seemed unaware of his own culpability.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-292" id="en0-292" role="doc-noteref">292</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In early September, the Sussexes flew to Britain for Meghan’s appearance at the One Young World conference in Manchester, followed by their dash to Düsseldorf for the Invictus Games. Then a brief stay in Frogmore before returning to California. Out of the Buckingham Palace loop, Harry had no idea about his family’s unfolding drama.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>