<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 17</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct17" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct17"><span id="page_157"/>CHAPTER 17</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Funeral</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Early on the morning of 8th September 2022, Charles was at Dumfries House in Ayrshire in Scotland, waiting for an American TV crew to set up their cameras for an interview he was doing on his expensive restoration project. A call told him that his mother was seriously ill. At 9.30am, he took off by helicopter towards Balmoral. Landing at his Birkhall home, which he had inherited from the Queen Mother, Charles drove across the Balmoral estate to the Queen’s bedside. Despite the graveness of the situation, Charles was satisfied that his mother was stable, so he returned to Birkhall.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles telephoned William and Harry with the news. He told both to head immediately to Northolt airport in west London. A jet would be waiting to take off for Scotland at 2.30pm. Just after 2pm, William was in the plane. Harry was still in Frogmore, arguing on the phone with his father.</p>
<p class="txt">Events in Frogmore after Charles’s first phone call followed a now predictable pattern. Both Harry and Meghan dithered. Meghan was unable to decide what to pack as suitable clothes to wear for Balmoral. Despite the confusion, she had managed to contact Sunshine Sachs’s Keleigh Thomas Morgan – in the middle of the night in Los Angeles – to organise a flash note to the media that both Sussexes were flying to <span id="page_158"/>Scotland. When Charles heard that Meghan intended to come, he called Harry. That was unacceptable, said Charles.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry, Charles recognised, was beyond his control. Not only as a free agent publicly rampaging against his family, but also risking millions of pounds in his court battles against the government and the tabloids. Harry’s explanations for his attacks were beyond Charles’s comprehension. Underlying Charles’s anger that fateful morning was his mother’s disappointment that the Sussexes had attacked the very institution which gave them so much. Since Meghan had refused the Queen’s invitations to Balmoral in the Queen’s lifetime, she was unwelcome at her death. Sharing his grief with Meghan, who maligned the monarchy, was unthinkable, said Charles. He believed that, to her dying day, his mother was shocked by Harry’s disloyalty.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-293" id="en0-293" role="doc-noteref">293</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘I will not tolerate it!’ Harry shouted at his father. ‘Don’t even think of talking like that about my wife.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-294" id="en0-294" role="doc-noteref">294</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Twenty-five years after Diana’s death, in the absence of any divided loyalties, his father’s trauma failed to tug any kindred emotions. Instead, Harry was preoccupied with Meghan’s insistence that she fly to Balmoral. At the family’s grief-stricken moment, on the eve of his grandmother being lifted into a coffin, Harry thought it was appropriate for Meghan to be welcomed by the people she had caricatured as medieval. Harry was outraged by Charles’s reaction: ‘He started to tell me his reasons but they didn’t make any sense at all. And it was disrespectful as well.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-295" id="en0-295" role="doc-noteref">295</a></sup> Charles ended their argument by revealing that Kate would not be coming, so Meghan had not been picked on. Still fuming, Harry discovered that William, who was unwilling to wait any longer, had ordered the plane to take off.</p>
<p class="txt">Days later, Harry told a senior official that the plane’s departure ‘was not a cock-up but a deliberate snub’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-296" id="en0-296" role="doc-noteref">296</a></sup> He claimed that his messages to William elicited no reply. William’s staff insisted that Harry had never contacted them.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-297" id="en0-297" role="doc-noteref">297</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_159"/>While picking mushrooms in the woods, Charles was alerted that, faster than the doctor had anticipated, the Queen was dying. He was still driving to Balmoral Castle when Edward Young called to deliver the news that the Queen had died at 3.10pm, signalling the end of a seventy-year reign.</p>
<p class="txt">William’s plane landed in Aberdeen at 3.50pm. Ninety minutes later, Harry took off in his own chartered jet to Aberdeen. As he flew north, his anger towards William mounted. Not only had his brother not waited, but as the new Prince of Wales he would receive £23 million every year from the Duchy of Cornwall and was a step closer to becoming the king. Then, Kate would be crowned queen, while Meghan remained a duchess.</p>
<p class="txt">The Queen’s death was announced to the world at 6.30pm. Harry received the news while in the air. On arriving at Balmoral, he heard that Charles, Camilla and William had gone to Birkhall for dinner and to sleep.On William’s insistence, Harry was not invited. He could not be trusted.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-298" id="en0-298" role="doc-noteref">298</a></sup> Princess Anne took Harry to see his grandmother’s body. Later, the two had dinner with his two uncles, Andrew and Edward. Early the following morning, Harry returned to London on a commercial flight. Asked about those circumstances four months later, Harry told CBS’s Anderson Cooper that he had not been given the first plane’s flight details. ‘I was not invited,’ he would tell American viewers.</p>
<p class="txt">The state funeral was set for 19th September. The Sussexes dithered and then decided to wait ten days in Frogmore. The image of them leaving – even temporarily – would have been damaging.</p>
<p class="txt">The nation’s grieving was interrupted three days later when William and Kate decided to meet the mourners gathered outside Windsor laying flowers. At the last moment, for the monarchy’s sake, William invited Harry and Meghan. With their feud being repeatedly mentioned by the media, he wanted to avoid any blame for excluding the couple. Meghan demanded time for her make-up, hair and to dress. Meeting in the castle, <span id="page_160"/>the two couples drove for three minutes together in silence to the gates. As they emerged, they barely looked at each other.</p>
<p class="txt">The crowd was ecstatic. The two couples split, each one engaging with people on one side of the road. Everyone focused on Harry and Meghan. Both performed to perfection, except when Meghan was seen to impatiently rebuff an aide trying to help with bunches of flowers. As they drove off after forty minutes, some speculated about a reconciliation, portraying the emotional scenes as ‘bringing Harry back in’ to re-bond with his devastated father. Another wrote that William and Harry ‘came together to close the gap’ in a ‘show of unity’ that they were ‘there for each other’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-299" id="en0-299" role="doc-noteref">299</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Those speculating about reconciliation would have had little knowledge of the true nature and impact of Harry’s and Meghan’s impending Netflix series and Harry’s book, so would have failed to grasp Harry’s and Meghan’s delight that the funeral added further authenticity to both projects. Nevertheless, as they drove back to Frogmore, Harry and Meghan were fuming. They had not been greeted by William and Kate on the terms they expected. Neither had embraced Meghan nor shown her sufficient respect. Kate had been cold. His family, Harry complained, showed ‘absolutely no willingness to reconcile’. They had been victims of ‘really horrible’ treatment.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-300" id="en0-300" role="doc-noteref">300</a></sup> Reportedly, Kate had told a senior royal that the walkabout was ‘one of the hardest things she’d ever had to do’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-301" id="en0-301" role="doc-noteref">301</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Over the following week, as the vast majority of Britons were emotionally struck by the dignity and honour of Britain’s traditions, endless tributes were paid to the flawless monarch who had devoted herself to serve her country and the Commonwealth. Detailed plans for the funeral were adjusted for the new circumstances, including Harry’s position and dress during the meticulous pageantry. In the course of repeated conversations with Palace officials, Harry agreed that he would not wear a uniform as he walked with William and their cousin Peter <span id="page_161"/>Phillips behind the team of horses pulling the Queen’s coffin on a gun carriage from Buckingham Palace to Westminster Hall for the lying-in-state. Military bands playing their haunting marching rhythms silenced those questioning Harry’s loyalty to an institution he was committed to injure, and whose fate now rested on his father, the new King.</p>
<p class="txt">Uniforms were important in Harry’s life. After more discussions, the Palace agreed that he could wear his while standing vigil for the lying-in-state in Westminster Abbey. On the same terms, he assumed, as the disgraced Andrew. Once the uniform was delivered, he discovered that the Queen’s cipher insignia – EIIR – had been removed from the shoulder. He protested. The reason was irrefutable: Harry was no longer a working royal. On arriving at Westminster Hall, he spotted that Andrew’s uniform still bore the insignia. He protested again. The answer was ready: whereas Harry had been ordered to return ‘all honorary military appointments’, at that time Andrew had returned only his ‘military affiliations’ but retained his appointment as the monarch’s aide-de-camp.</p>
<p class="txt">The new King resisted the temptation to strip the couple of their titles and declare Harry an outcast. His mother would not have approved. But he did disinvite the Sussexes from a Buckingham Palace reception before the funeral for heads of state and their representatives, a thousand guests. ‘Only for working royals,’ Harry was told.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-302" id="en0-302" role="doc-noteref">302</a></sup> Originally, the term had been invented to exclude the disgraced Prince Andrew from Buckingham Palace’s balcony. During the next few days, Charles sidelined his son’s insistence that he sign the letters patent – official, legal documents – to formally create his children, Archie and Lilibet Mountbatten-Windsor, as Their Royal Highnesses Prince and Princess. Charles also planned to amend the Regency Act, removing Harry’s status as a counsellor of state empowered to step in if the King was incapacitated. Without a British home, Harry would automatically lose his counsellor status.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_162"/>While Harry fussed about his relations with his family, from Frogmore, Meghan reorganised her public relations set-up. Sunshine Sachs’s Keleigh Thomas Morgan resigned, along with Toya Holness. Neither could cope with Meghan’s demands. Christine Schirmer, an experienced communications advisor, was appointed Archewell’s media supremo.</p>
<p class="txt"><em>Variety</em> magazine agreed to delay publishing an interview they’d done with Meghan until after the Queen’s funeral. The magazine also approved an insertion into Matt Donnelly’s article. Originally, Meghan had not mentioned the Queen, just as she had ignored her when she was the guest editor of <em>Vogue</em>. Marrying into the Royal Family, Meghan believed, had been just a ‘chapter’ in her life.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-303" id="en0-303" role="doc-noteref">303</a></sup> Belatedly, though, she paid lip service to the Royal Family, having told Donnelly that the Queen was a ‘shining example of female leadership and I continue to be proud to have had a nice warmth with the matriarch of the family’.</p>
<p class="txt">Indignation was etched on Harry’s face as he entered the Abbey for the funeral service on 19th September. In Harry’s tribute to the Queen, whom he dubbed his ‘guiding compass’, the Prince quoted the Queen’s words after Philip’s death: ‘Life, of course, consists of final partings as well as first meetings.’ He concluded, ‘We now honour my father, in his new role as King Charles III.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-304" id="en0-304" role="doc-noteref">304</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan drove to the funeral in Westminster Abbey with Sophie, the Countess of Wessex. The silent tension between the two women, both married to Windsors in the line of succession, reflected their mutual antagonism. In Meghan’s eyes, demure Sophie fitted the mould, seamlessly blending into the Royal Family. While Meghan, in Sophie’s opinion, always drew attention to herself by refusing to play any part other than one in her own script. But there was a twist. After launching her attacks, Meghan had not anticipated that the Royal Family would fight back.</p>
<p class="txt">In the abbey, the cameras’ view of Meghan was obscured by Vice-<span id="page_163"/>Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence, Princess Anne’s husband, and a giant candle. Similarly, no camera could show Harry and William in one shot or even with a pan. They were kept separate. Nothing happened by accident. Throughout the morning, Meghan blamed the family’s racism for the coolness towards her. Victimhood was Meghan’s religion, the justification for her aggression.</p>
<p class="txt">Seated in the second row, Harry was carefully scrutinised for clues about his state of mind. One reporter wrote that Harry had the ‘air of a tormented man’, albeit ‘without malign intent’, who finally realised his sacrifice for La La Land. ‘It looks as if he misses us, as we miss him,’ she concluded.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-305" id="en0-305" role="doc-noteref">305</a></sup> Another observed that grievance was etched on Harry’s face.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-306" id="en0-306" role="doc-noteref">306</a></sup> A few journalists noted that Harry failed to sing the national anthem with gusto. He sang through gritted teeth and completely stopped at ‘God Save the King’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-307" id="en0-307" role="doc-noteref">307</a></sup> Nevertheless, in the aftermath, ‘sources’ hinted to newspapers that the King saw ‘tremendous flickers of hope’ for reconciliation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-308" id="en0-308" role="doc-noteref">308</a></sup> All that speculation would prove to be mistaken. By the end of the month, the Sussexes had been ‘demoted’ to the bottom of the Royal Family’s website, below Princess Alexandra, a cousin of the Queen ranking fifty-sixth in the line of succession.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-309" id="en0-309" role="doc-noteref">309</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After two weeks in Britain, the Sussexes left London without reconciliation. Neither heard the King’s first address to the nation: ‘I want also to express my love for Harry and Meghan as they continue to build their lives overseas.’ Typically, Charles shied away from confrontation.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes flew to Los Angeles on a commercial flight after seeking a lift with Jill Biden on Air Force One. To avoid offending the Royal Family, the White House rejected their request. For the same reason, Jill Biden had also rejected Harry’s invitation to attend the Invictus Games in Holland.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-310" id="en0-310" role="doc-noteref">310</a></sup> Despite the snubs, the Sussexes could not risk damaging their relationship with the Biden family. So much of their fate in America depended on the Democrat support. Meghan assumed that Joe Biden’s dislike of British colonialism would cement their relationship.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_164"/>Back in Montecito, Meghan contemplated the curtain-raiser to the Netflix series. ‘I learned so much about myself,’ Meghan disclosed, by not being ‘heard and understood’. Reacting to the Royal Family ignoring her during the funeral, she quoted a Greek poet Dinos Christianopoulos, ‘What didn’t you do to bury me? But you forgot that I was a seed.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-311" id="en0-311" role="doc-noteref">311</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Christine Schirmer was directed to resume the Sussexes’ plan of action. Shortly after Buckingham Palace released an official photograph of the new Royal Family – the King, Queen and the new Prince and Princess of Wales – the Sussexes released an official photo of themselves. Taken at the One Young World Summit in Manchester, it showed Meghan, dressed in red, staring sharply into the lens while Harry appeared somewhat awkward. No one in London misunderstood the message. No doubt intended, the battle of the photographs eclipsed Kate’s first public engagement in Scotland.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-312" id="en0-312" role="doc-noteref">312</a></sup> Relentlessly, Schirmer was told that the focus should be on the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">Incensed by his treatment in London, Harry was more determined than ever to cause chaos. Contrary to media reports, he had no intention of approving any further cuts from his book. All sixteen language editions were ready for printing, and the audio and Kindle versions were under way. Billed in the advance publicity as ‘raw, unflinching honesty’, <em>Spare</em>’s publication had been planned while the Queen was alive. Potentially, her death reduced the book’s power of embarrassment. Either way, Harry appeared unconcerned by the effect it would have had on her reputation, even so soon after her death<strong>.</strong> ‘Hard-won wisdom about the eternal power of love over grief,’ was Harry’s promotional quote, reflecting his alleged professions of affection for his grandmother.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-313" id="en0-313" role="doc-noteref">313</a></sup></p>
</section>

</body>
</html>