<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 18</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct18" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct18"><span id="page_165"/>CHAPTER 18</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Protection</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">While the Queen lay in state in Westminster Hall, Harry had approved the details of his claim against Associated Newspapers, the owner of the <em>Mail</em> group.</p>
<p class="txt">Over the previous months, David Sherborne had been recruiting celebrities and other high-profile people to join the Prince in a joint action against the <em>Mail</em> for hiring private investigators to collect information illegally. Sherborne’s biggest catch was Baroness Doreen Lawrence, the grieving mother of Stephen, an 18-year-old black student brutally murdered in 1993 in south-east London by a gang of local white thugs. For four years, the murderers had been protected by corrupt and prejudiced members of London’s Metropolitan Police Service. The stalemate was broken in 1997 by the <em>Daily Mail</em>. In a bold front page, the newspaper named five men, each with a photograph, as the murderers. The floodgates opened. London’s police force was damned by an official inquiry and in 2012, two men were convicted of the murder. Doreen Lawrence became a Labour peer and, it seemed, was grateful to the <em>Mail.</em></p>
<p class="txt">In January 2022, Harry sent Doreen Lawrence a text message saying there was ‘information’ she ‘would want to know about’. Days later, at Harry’s suggestion, she met Sherborne. Lawrence was told by the lawyer <span id="page_166"/>that two private investigators hired by the <em>Mail</em> had been ‘instructed to target Lawrence for “internal security”’. Sherborne showed Lawrence a statement allegedly signed by Gavin Burrows, a private investigator, in which Burrows admitted that he had been paid by the <em>Mail</em> group to illegally intercept her voicemail messages, itemised telephone bills and medical records. ‘I must have done hundreds of jobs between 2000 and 2005 for [a journalist] whilst he was at the <em>Mail on Sunday,</em>’ attested Burrows. In detail, he admitted to phone tapping and bugging cars and homes, including those of Harry, Doreen Lawrence, the actor Hugh Grant and other celebrities.</p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne showed Lawrence another statement signed by Harry: ‘I was told that Mr Burrows had been regularly commissioned by the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> to unlawfully obtain my private information by methods such as hacking telephones, obtaining credit card bills, tapping landlines, including my friend Guy Pelly’s.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-314" id="en0-314" role="doc-noteref">314</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The revelation, Lawrence said, had left her feeling ‘numb with anger’. She had suffered ‘a new trauma and injustice’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-315" id="en0-315" role="doc-noteref">315</a></sup> On the basis of Harry’s endorsement of Burrows’s statement, Lawrence was persuaded by Sherborne that she could accuse the <em>Mail</em> of being ‘in bed with corruption and abhorrent criminal behaviour’ that had prevented all her son’s killers being jailed. Any doubts she might have harboured would have been quashed by Sherborne’s disclosure that she would be joining not only Prince Harry in the claim but also Elton John, and actors Elizabeth Hurley, Sadie Frost and Hugh Grant.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-316" id="en0-316" role="doc-noteref">316</a></sup> Burrows apparently admitted that those ‘were just a small handful of my targets’ for the <em>Mail</em>.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Appalling and utterly groundless’ and ‘preposterous’, thundered Associated Newspapers, the owner of the <em>Mail</em> group, in reply to Burrows’s claims. Harry and the others, said Associated, were relying on a self-confessed phone hacker. Burrows, continued Associated, had been recruited to Harry’s case by Jonathan Rees, a hacker convicted <span id="page_167"/>of attempting to pervert the course of justice and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, and by Graham Johnson, also convicted of phone hacking.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry and Lawrence were surprised by the next move. Associated presented them with a statement signed by the same Gavin Burrows denying that the statement flourished by Sherborne to Harry and Lawrence was authentic. Explicitly, Burrows denied that he had ever been employed by the <em>Mail</em> to gather information illegally against the claimants. Despite the fact the claimants’ team had insisted Burrows had signed the statement and understood its purpose, the ‘Burrows statement’ flourished by Sherborne was allegedly bogus.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry had become embroiled in unusually contentious litigation. Independent lawyers were appointed by Harry’s solicitors to sift through millions of pages in Associated’s commercial archives looking for evidence of payments to Burrows. Without a ‘money trail’, Harry’s case was difficult to prove. The projected cost of the trial was £38 million. Even before the first court hearing, Harry’s messages to Lawrence went ‘missing’ from both mobile phones. But that did not hamper their claims. Sherborne was certain that he could produce direct links between the <em>Mail</em>’s stories about the claimants and the <em>Mail</em> ’s payments for unlawful activities to private investigators. A total of £3 million, he claimed, was paid by the <em>Mail</em> group to private investigators. In Harry’s case, Sherborne produced fourteen articles in the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> offering intimate details about Harry in the Bouji nightclub and his relationship with Chelsy Davy. He claimed they were illegally sourced using bribes to BA employees when Davey would fly into London, and others. Denying that allegation, the <em>Mail</em> countered that their journalists mixed with Harry and his friends in the club, knew the club’s staff well and used legal, professional methods to get information from reliable sources.</p>
<p class="txt">Critics would say that Harry’s self-confidence had been <span id="page_168"/>exploited by his lawyers, pocketing millions of pounds in legal fees from successful claimants. Their activities, funded by Harry, re-emerged in a complaint to IPSO, the press standards watchdog.</p>
<p class="txt">Then Harry complained about a <em>Mail on Sunday</em> exposé of his alleged dishonesty relating to a series of wildlife photographs posted on Instagram. Those photos, reported the <em>Mail</em>, showed Harry standing bravely close to untethered elephants. But the Instagram photos were untruthful. They had been cropped to conceal restraining ropes around the elephants’ legs.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-317" id="en0-317" role="doc-noteref">317</a></sup> Harry’s hopeless complaint reflected his questionable judgement in pursuit of the media. It was rejected.</p>
<p class="txt">One defeat, though, did not dent Harry’s commitment. On the eve of the court hearings of his claims against the <em>Mirror</em> and <em>Sun</em> newspapers for their illegal activities, he was still confident of victory. After sifting through copies of the <em>Mirror</em> and <em>Sun</em> back to the mid-1990s, his lawyers had shown him over a hundred articles. Most he was reading for the first time. The more he read, the more annoyed he became. Even in the absence of any direct evidence, Harry’s lawyers claimed that any report which embarrassed Harry was obtained illegally. In Harry’s opinion, the media’s hostility justified his book and the Netflix series.</p>
<p class="txt">In California, Netflix chief Ted Sarandos knew he was on to a winner. The Sussexes are ‘great at getting attention’, he would chirrup.‘You may love them or hate them, but you’re watching.’ Naturally, Netflix had made elaborate plans for promoting the series in the run-up to December 2022. When the company’s publicists had checked on the future arrangements of William and Kate they had discovered a heavenly gift. The couple were due to be in Boston on 30th November for a three-day visit to launch The Earthshot Prize, their annual £1 million prize for green visionaries and environmentalists. President Biden was among the guests listed to greet the couple in the home town of the Kennedys, America’s own royalty. The Sussexes planned a rival tour in New York.</p>
<p class="txt">William’s staff wearily anticipated the Sussexes’ sabotage. Harry and <span id="page_169"/>Meghan had attacked the Royal Family on ITV in 2019, just as William and Kate undertook a sensitive visit to Pakistan. Subsequently, most official announcements of any event involving the Cambridges were followed within hours by a counter from Montecito. But no publicist in New York and Los Angeles anticipated the bonus presented in London on 30th November.</p>
<p class="txt">At a Buckingham Palace reception for victims of sexual violence hosted by Queen Camilla, Lady Susan Hussey, an 83-year-old lady-in-waiting for the previous sixty-two years had as usual welcomed the guests, discovered their background and decided whether to steer Camilla towards the visitor.</p>
<p class="txt">In the crowded, noisy room, the hard-of-hearing widow approached 61-year-old Ngozi Fulani. Looking at the woman dressed in a flamboyant, colourful African national costume, Hussey asked, ‘Where do you come from?’ Over the previous decade, Hussey had asked the same question countless times. Unable to understand or possibly hear Fulani’s answer, Hussey moved her hair to read the name badge. Eventually, Fulani explained she was originally from north London and had been born as Marlene Headley. Clearly puzzled, Hussey again asked, ‘Where do you really come from?’ Fulani did not mention that she had travelled to Buckingham Palace by train from Peckham in south London. Nothing more was said until the early hours of the following day.</p>
<p class="txt">On Twitter, Fulani accused Hussey of racism. By asking ‘Where are you really from?’, wrote Fulani, Hussey was guilty of a ‘form of abuse’. Moving her hair had aggravated the insult. ‘I think it is essential to acknowledge that trauma has occurred,’ she tweeted. Before daybreak, Fulani had embarked on a mass-media tour without any journalist questioning her version of events. Hussey’s racism was not doubted. Rather than wondering whether Hussey had been set up, the media frenzy endlessly rebroadcast Fulani’s suggestion, ‘Why don’t we re-educate [Hussey]?’</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_170"/>Buckingham Palace was gripped by panic. The epitome of ‘white privilege’ – the royal household – had been categorised by a self-proclaimed victim as prejudiced and guilty.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-318" id="en0-318" role="doc-noteref">318</a></sup> Just as he was leaving for Boston, William was told about the furore. He was alarmed. The public would assume that Harry’s and Meghan’s accusation about institutional racism within the Royal Family was true.</p>
<p class="txt">Instead of either Edward Young or Clive Alderton summoning a meeting to agree a riposte lamenting a devoted, deaf, elderly woman misunderstanding an esteemed guest, they remained paralysed. None of William’s advisors questioned Ngozi Fulani nor considered that Hussey regularly attended a Southwark church where the majority of the congregation was black. Instead of supporting Hussey, his godmother who was beloved by King Charles, William bowed to the Sussexes’ scenario. If the Palace failed to issue an immediate grovelling apology, he calculated, his visit would be endangered. Five hours after Fulani’s first broadcast, Hussey was fired. Sixty-two years of loyal service was ignored. ‘Racism has no place in our society,’ said William’s spokesman.</p>
<p class="txt">Two days later, on a bitterly cold day, the Waleses hosted a glittering reception in Boston’s MGM Music Hall. Presented as ‘powerbrokers’ and ‘changemakers’, the Waleses were welcomed by large crowds. But even the presence of President Biden, the former Secretary of State John Kerry, the Republican senator Mitt Romney, plus Annie Lennox, Ellie Goulding and the surprise arrival of David Beckham, could not drown the impact of Netflix’s trailer to the six-part series, expertly timed for release just after the Waleses’ grand entrance.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It’s about hatred; it’s about race,’ said Netflix’s narrator – Prince Harry – with undisguised aggression. Over shots of hard-faced William, scowling Kate and saintly Meghan in Westminster Abbey in 2019, Harry issued a declaration of war: ‘No one sees what’s happening behind closed doors.’ Cut to Meghan: ‘Unfortunately, in us standing for something, they are destroying us.’ Over a burst of piano music, <span id="page_171"/>Harry added with menace, ‘This isn’t just about our story. This has always been so much bigger than us. No one knows the full truth. We know the full truth.’</p>
<p class="txt">Cut to Meghan in an armchair apparently crying. On the eve of her wedding, she was already a victim of racism: ‘Truth be told, no matter how hard I tried, no matter how good I was, no matter what I did, they were still going to find a way to destroy me.’ Standing beside a £2,000 Hermes blanket, Meghan sobbed. ‘I had to do everything to protect my family,’ continued Harry over shots of the Royal Family. To ‘destroy’ Meghan, he said, Buckingham Palace had planted ‘salacious stories’ in the media. The ‘dirty game’ was confirmed by Schillings’ lawyer Jenny Afia: ‘There was a war against Meghan to suit other people’s agendas.’ The accusation was repeated by an American entrepreneur, Christopher Bouzy: ‘It’s about hatred, it’s about race.’</p>
<p class="txt">Cut to Meghan: ‘When the stakes are this high, doesn’t it make sense to hear our story from us?’</p>
<p class="txt">The core of the Sussexes’ complaints was the sequence illustrating Harry’s obsession with a ‘conspiracy’ to destroy Meghan headlined, ‘Exploitation and Bribery Between our Family and the Media’. The Sussexes accused the media of publishing poisonous falsehoods. Garbus and Netflix had ordered picture researchers to scour the newspaper and film archives for dramatic proof of the media’s malicious dishonesty towards the Sussexes. The result was a trailer created from sequences of misrepresentations.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-319" id="en0-319" role="doc-noteref">319</a></sup> Shots purporting to be Harry and Meghan pursued by the paparazzi were actually cameramen filming the British model and media personality Katie Price at Crawley Magistrates Court a year after the Sussexes had left Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-320" id="en0-320" role="doc-noteref">320</a></sup> Harry’s voice accusing British newspapers of ‘outright racism’ was illustrated by a newspaper headline ‘Princess in Crisis’ lifted from the <em>National Enquirer</em>’s false claim in 2010 that Kate Middleton was an alcoholic.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-321" id="en0-321" role="doc-noteref">321</a></sup> The images of jostling photographers persecuting the Sussexes was actually footage taken at a <span id="page_172"/>2011 Harry Potter film premiere before the Sussexes had met. Garbus’s illustration of the Sussexes suffering the media’s persecution was images of chaos shot in May 2019 outside the house of Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s former lawyer, as he was about to leave for prison.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-322" id="en0-322" role="doc-noteref">322</a></sup> Without offering any evidence, Meghan’s friend Lucy Fraser, posing as a PR consultant, denounced the media for ‘going through rubbish bins’ and Harry’s and Meghan’s bank accounts.</p>
<p class="txt">In one genuine sequence of Harry leading Meghan away from popping flashbulbs, Harry spoke of the ‘pain and suffering of women marrying into this institution . . . I don’t want history to repeat itself.’ The video was recorded in 2018 at the peak of ‘Meghan Mania’. The American was surrounded by loving crowds.</p>
<p class="txt">In a promotional statement, the Sussexes said, ‘We hope [the series] helps others to heal, and to feel inspired.’ Curiously, though, despite all this, Meghan had told <em>Variety</em> magazine that the series was ‘not the way we would have told it’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-323" id="en0-323" role="doc-noteref">323</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Liz Garbus appears to have performed one more favour for the Sussexes. Her professional partner, Rory Kennedy, was the sister of Kerry Kennedy. Both were the daughters of Robert F. Kennedy, the Attorney General assassinated in 1968 and the brother of President John F. Kennedy. Every year, Kerry Kennedy, a human rights activist, hosted a gala in New York to announce the Robert F. Kennedy Ripple Award, recognising an ‘exemplary leader’ demonstrating an unwavering commitment to ‘protect and advance equity, justice and human rights’. Previous winners included Archbishop Desmond Tutu and the Clintons. The winners in 2022, besides the Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky, were the Sussexes. Kerry Kennedy explained that after watching the Oprah Winfrey interview, she wanted to reward the Sussexes for challenging the Royal Family’s ‘power structure’ and branding the Royal Family’s institution as endemic with ‘structural racism’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-324" id="en0-324" role="doc-noteref">324</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Conveniently, the New York gala at the midtown Hilton would be <span id="page_173"/>held just two days after The Earthshot Prize and two days before the Netflix series was streamed on 6th December. Hosting the ceremony would be Alec Baldwin, the Hollywood actor and director recently charged with accidentally shooting dead a female cinematographer.</p>
<p class="txt">As a five-year-old, Meghan had told her father about her ambition to walk on the red carpet. She wanted to make her mark. Her appearance at the Kennedys’ New York gala would be another opportunity to relaunch herself. Harry had Invictus and Sentebale, and Netflix had commissioned a series on polo. She had not yet come up with anything new. The Ripple Award was her opportunity to be anointed as a civil rights hero by the Democrats’ own royal family.</p>
<p class="txt">Arriving in New York on a private jet funded by the charity, the long process of selecting her clothes had produced a stunning effect. Meghan wore an ivory off-the-shoulder dress with long sleeves and a skirt with a front split custom-made for her by Nicolas Ghesquière. It was strikingly similar to Kate’s gown, worn days earlier in Boston. Her jewellery was capped by shimmering diamond drop earrings and an aquamarine cocktail ring owned by Princess Diana. Over a hundred journalists and a slew of cameramen were waiting in the rain as Meghan emerged from the limousine in mid-Manhattan. Harry instantly made the news by opening an umbrella as he nervously escorted the star towards the entrance.</p>
<p class="txt">‘What do you think about destroying the Royal Family, Meghan?’ shouted a heckler. ‘Are you putting money before family?’ yelled a journalist.</p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring the sour notes, the couple entered a small room to parade for the journalists and photographers. Eyes beaming with every hair in place and her dress perfectly hung, Meghan held her rictus smile for four minutes then swept out. Unlike many stars who disappoint in real life, both behaved like royals. Their charisma was genuine.</p>
<p class="txt">Inside the ballroom, over 75 Kennedys and about 1,500 guests <span id="page_174"/>paying a minimum of $2,500 a ticket were awaiting the Sussexes. Those guests with guaranteed access to the couple had paid $410,000 for the privilege. Among the eager diners was Robert Couri Hay, a celebrity gossip columnist. ‘It was a hot ticket,’ he burbled. ‘A sell-out. Harry and Meghan were hot and fresh in America. They reinvigorated the gala – created quite a stir. It was an electric atmosphere and Harry and Meghan milked it for all its worth.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-325" id="en0-325" role="doc-noteref">325</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On stage, Kerry Kennedy introduced the prize winners as ‘heroes’ for leaving Britain: ‘They embody moral courage. They went to the oldest institution in UK history and told them what they were doing wrong. They couldn’t have structural racism in the institution. They knew that there would be consequences, that they would be ostracised, they would lose their families, their position and that people would blame them for it. They did it because they believed that they couldn’t live with themselves if they didn’t question this authority.’</p>
<p class="txt">Referring to Bobby Kennedy, she praised the Sussexes’ ‘moral courage – the one essential, vital quality’, according to her father ‘for those who seek to change a world that yields most painfully to change’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was allowed the first words: ‘We don’t get out much these days because our kids are small and young, so this is quite unexpected. I’ll be honest with you, Kerry – I thought we were just going on a date night, so I found it quite weird that we’re sharing the room with 1,500 people.’ Amid the laughter, he smartly moved to the side. Centre stage was Meghan, the star of the show. As Meghan took the microphone, the slick actress proved herself a master of presentation. ‘Harry looked at Meghan like she was ice-cream,’ noted Hay. ‘He was awestruck by her.’</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s audience was similarly gripped as she spoke about the horror of the Royal Family’s racism: ‘I just didn’t want to be alive any more.’ That night, racism was the cause of her attempted suicide. Huge applause followed her denunciation. She was revealing her misery, she continued, ‘because I don’t want anyone to feel alone’.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_175"/>In her feminist mode, Meghan announced the Archewell Foundation award for activist film-makers promoting gender equity. Thunderous applause, and the Sussexes circulated amid unquestioning admirers.</p>
<p class="txt">After they left the hall, Baldwin was asked whether he thought the Royal Family was racist. ‘No, no, no, no,’ he replied.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-326" id="en0-326" role="doc-noteref">326</a></sup> A few Americans were equally dubious about the award. ‘I find it somewhere between sublimely ridiculous and blatantly ludicrous,’ said Professor David Nasaw, a biographer of Joseph Kennedy. ‘It’s absurd.’ Another critic wrote: ‘You’ve turned the award and the organisation into a farce and laughing stock. Your father will be turning in his grave with this misuse of his name.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-327" id="en0-327" role="doc-noteref">327</a></sup> Those critics were the exception. Like Robert Couri Hay, most were ecstatic.</p>
<p class="txt">Two days later, the Netflix series aired and broke all records for first-day audiences: 2.4 million people watched it in Britain while globally, the audience was eventually estimated at 49 million. The Sussexes were delighted. The Royal Family had been torpedoed.</p>
<p class="txt">Inevitably, some commentators carped about the ‘Spoiled Princess’, the ‘Petulant Princess’ and the ‘Montecito Malevolents’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-328" id="en0-328" role="doc-noteref">328</a></sup> Others noted that no major stars like Oprah Winfrey, Elton John or the Obamas supported the Sussexes in the series. ‘They left the UK to be their authentic selves,’ observed the <em>Daily Mail</em>. ‘And true to themselves, the Netflix series is a performance. They want to remain in the spotlight.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-329" id="en0-329" role="doc-noteref">329</a></sup> On CNN, Peggy Drexler identified the Sussexes’ ‘fatal flaw’ as ‘thinking they can control how others see them’. There was, she thought, ‘little to change people’s minds about them. It’s self-promotional, self-aggrandising and, frankly, a little boring. They do not come off as more likeable. Notably, it’s perhaps the first time that much of the dislike is directed towards Harry, instead of just Meghan.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-330" id="en0-330" role="doc-noteref">330</a></sup> The journalist Barbara Amiel noticed how Harry ‘pouts that he hates media attention’ but the six-part series was only about ‘earning millions of dollars’ by standing in the spotlight.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-331" id="en0-331" role="doc-noteref">331</a></sup> The result, said Piers Morgan, was ‘greedy, <span id="page_176"/>ruthless, two-faced nonsense’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-332" id="en0-332" role="doc-noteref">332</a></sup> <em>Variety</em> joined the negative camp. Under the headline ‘It’s Well Past Time for Harry and Meghan 2.0’, the media analyst Andrew Wallenstein wrote, ‘There can only be so many revelations left to share with the public. Given that they’ve beaten this horse to death, perhaps this one-trick pony is due for the glue factory.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-333" id="en0-333" role="doc-noteref">333</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In London, officials had organised a show of force. In Buckingham Palace, Charles and Camilla hosted a glittering reception for the diplomatic corps. Earlier on the same day, Charles had been sitting cross-legged at a Sikh temple promoting the importance of religious and racial unity. Days later, twenty members of the Royal Family paraded into Westminster Abbey for a service of thanksgiving of the late Queen’s life with a congregation of 1,800 voluntary workers. In his sermon for his Christmas Concert, also in the abbey, William praised the ‘spirit of togetherness’. Christ, he said, was born ‘to serve, not to be served’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-334" id="en0-334" role="doc-noteref">334</a></sup> William was undoubtedly smarting from Harry’s accusation in a TV interview that ‘without question’ William had approved the release of Knauf’s memo to <em>The Times</em>. Single-handedly, said Harry, William had broken their ‘pact’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-335" id="en0-335" role="doc-noteref">335</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Netflix series did not improve the Sussexes’ reputation in Britain. Only 17 per cent of those polled sided with Meghan and Harry, while 44 per cent were sympathetic to William and Kate. A mere 11 per cent thought the Sussexes had been forced out of Britain and 19 per cent thought they deserved an apology.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-336" id="en0-336" role="doc-noteref">336</a></sup> Clutching at those straws, Buckingham Palace dismissed the Netflix series as ‘not as damaging as we feared’ because the Sussexes had ‘overplayed their hand quite badly’. But tellingly, 26 per cent of Britons agreed that the Royal Family was racist, while 51 per cent thought the Sussexes should be invited to the coronation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-337" id="en0-337" role="doc-noteref">337</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Constitutionally, Charles needed Harry in Westminster. The Royal Family could not be seen as fractured. Despite William’s fears that Harry and Meghan would stage an attention-seeking stunt, the <span id="page_177"/>Sussexes were informally invited.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-338" id="en0-338" role="doc-noteref">338</a></sup> Harry refused to commit himself. The demands that he appear in civilian clothes, stripped of his uniform and medals and play no part in the ceremony, he told the Palace emissary, were unacceptable.</p>
<p class="txt">More important to Harry was his family issuing a ‘formal apology or taking responsibility or accountability’. Before committing to the coronation, his spokesman continued, the Sussexes wanted to ‘sit down with the Royal Family’ and ‘address’ their issues. In Harry’s ultimatum, ‘the ball is in the Palace’s court.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-339" id="en0-339" role="doc-noteref">339</a></sup> Neither of the Sussexes believed they owed an apology for anything. Both assumed they would dictate events.</p>
<p class="txt">‘My wife and I, we’re moving on,’ said Harry. ‘We’re focused on what’s coming next.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-340" id="en0-340" role="doc-noteref">340</a></sup> But the Sussexes were not ‘moving on’. To boost sales of <em>Spare</em>, due to be published in January, Harry had agreed to four TV interviews. One more blast, he calculated, and then his family would seek forgiveness.</p>
<p class="txt">Christmas Day in Montecito was quiet. With their children and Meghan’s mother Doria, the Sussexes entertained a neighbouring couple for lunch. By contrast, Charles hosted a party of over forty members of the family at Sandringham, including for the first time Camilla’s children, Sarah, the Duchess of York, with her daughters and Andrew, plus his sister Anne and brother Edward, his cousins, their children and their grandchildren. In a display of unity to the world, Charles sought to confound Harry’s jibe that the Windsors were dysfunctional. Unlike his mother, Charles spared no expense to offer good food and wine. Charles’s recorded TV Christmas message praised health workers, highlighted the good work by William and Kate, and didn’t mention Harry.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>