<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 19</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct19" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct19"><span id="page_178"/>CHAPTER 19</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Publication</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">The publication party for <em>Spare</em> in Santa Barbara was unusually low key. Hosted by ‘friends’ of the Sussexes, very few of the Random House staff dedicated to the book’s editing and production in Manhattan were invited. Most were not even aware of the party until after the event.</p>
<p class="txt">Amid all the arguments and delays, the mood was not particularly celebratory for a book which on its first day sold 1.43 million copies and would sell 3.2 million in the first week. Penguin Random House had expected the book to be ‘big’, but not for it to be ranked as history’s fastest selling non-fiction book. Although it was not what the editors had originally imagined, no one could dispute the book’s essential qualities: a gripping page-turner packed with a global celebrity’s intimate revelations.</p>
<p class="txt">At the party, no one suggested Harry write a second book. Moehringer in particular did not volunteer for another round. However, no one could accuse Harry of not reading his own book – a credible truth about many ghosted autobiographies. Harry slowly read his book’s audio version, lasting fifteen hours and thirty-seven minutes. The listener heard the multitude of slurs against his family in his own voice.</p>
<p class="txt">Among the surprises at the party was Meghan’s reticence. Months earlier, she had disappeared during Harry’s promotional tour. In the <span id="page_179"/>early stages of resurrecting her commercial brand, she had accepted advice that she must shed the image of a sour duchess. Partly on the advice of Adam Lilling, the founder of Plus Capital, a ‘partner to the world’s top influencers’, she planned her resurrection as a positive-thinking Californian entrepreneur. Her ambition was for huge wealth and, with that, presumably to stop appearing to be scrounging for rides on private jets. Therefore, she could no longer be associated with Harry’s attack on the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">To unveil her money-making spectaculars, she filed an application to revive The Tig, her old blog, a ‘hub for the discerning palate’ targeting those with ‘a hunger for food, travel, fashion and beauty’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-341" id="en0-341" role="doc-noteref">341</a></sup> She would negotiate with Netflix to produce ‘fictional, scripted content’, especially light-hearted romcoms. And documentaries too, like the Obamas’ award-winning <em>American Factory</em>, a searing account about a Chinese-owned factory in a depressed Ohio town. Planning a feminist spin-off of Charles Dickens’ <em>Great Expectations</em>, she would announce the hiring of Tracy Ryerson as head of scripted content supported by Nishika Kumble.</p>
<p class="txt">One blip was familiar. Mandana Dayani, Archewell’s chief of staff, resigned after only eighteen months, followed by Rebecca Sananes, who had been in charge of Meghan’s podcasts. Unable to find replacements, Meghan declared that the Sussexes would take a ‘leadership role’ though she would remain ‘invisible’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-342" id="en0-342" role="doc-noteref">342</a></sup> To remedy the latest twist, the Archewell Foundation paid £90,000 to Katie McCormick Lelyveld’s PR company<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-343" id="en0-343" role="doc-noteref">343</a></sup> for ‘strategic support for social impact PR’. Lelyveld had worked for Michelle Obama as press chief from 2007 to 2011 and previously for Hillary Clinton.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-344" id="en0-344" role="doc-noteref">344</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Random House assigned a team of publicists to accompany Harry to the TV interviews. Guided by those advisors, he focused on his moral ambition. ‘This is not about trying to collapse the monarchy,’ he said. ‘This is about trying to save them from themselves.’ His cause, he would repeat, was to reform the monarchy for the sake of his brother’s children. <span id="page_180"/>Like him, two would be ‘spares’ – ‘And that hurts. It worries me.’ Quite how describing his frozen penis, sex with a woman in a field and making faces at a hapless school assistant would help Charlotte and Louis was not explained.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-345" id="en0-345" role="doc-noteref">345</a></sup> The book, Harry was briefed to say, was important for ‘historical fact and significance’.</p>
<p class="txt">However, everyone recognised Harry’s limitations, not least that many of his accusations would be contested.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-346" id="en0-346" role="doc-noteref">346</a></sup> In anticipation of a challenge to his credibility, Moehringer had inserted into the text Harry’s thanks to his ghostwriter for speaking ‘so often and with such deep conviction about the beauty (and sacred obligation) of memoir’. To add heft, Moehringer had quoted an American essayist Mary Karr: ‘The line between memory and fact is blurry, between interpretation and fact.’ In Moehringer’s words, Harry’s fantasy was just as credible as the truth, just as Harry had said: ‘My memory is my memory and there’s just as much truth in what I remember and how I remember it as there is in so-called objective facts.’ Personal memories and past events could be revised to suit his purpose. Neither Moehringer nor Harry apparently acknowledged the existence of the irrefutable truth.</p>
<p class="txt">Forgetting how he blamed the Palace for failing to protect Meghan from media distortion, Harry narrated a promotional video of <em>Spare</em> featuring shots of Nelson Mandela. The South African, claimed Harry, inspired the Netflix series and his own autobiography. Instantly, Mandela’s granddaughter Nikola criticised Harry and the publishers for having ‘stolen my grandfather’s quotes and legacy because they know his name sells’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-347" id="en0-347" role="doc-noteref">347</a></sup> Harry, his publicists noticed, was puzzled by her criticism. Surely, he said, Mandela would approve of his performance?</p>
<p class="txt">During the week of publication, two interviews were arranged at the San Ysidro Ranch in Montecito. Anderson Cooper would put the questions for CBS (secured thanks to Meghan’s relationship with Oprah Winfrey) and ITV’s Tom Bradby arrived from London.</p>
<p class="txt">There was a genuine warmth when Harry and Bradby met. Even <span id="page_181"/>before the camera began recording, there was a certainty about Harry’s conviction. He had waited years for the moment to turn the tables on the media. Newspapers, he demanded, should depict him approvingly on his own terms. For his part, Bradby knew that his own credibility depended on asking some tough questions.</p>
<p class="txt">Among the most important issues was Harry’s and Meghan’s revelation to Oprah Winfrey about the Royal Family’s anticipation of the colour of Archie’s skin. In the filmed interview with Bradby, Harry bluntly denied that he or Meghan had accused the Royal Family of racism. ‘The press said that,’ he told Bradby. Asked again whether he had accused family members of racism, Harry replied: ‘No, I didn’t.’ At worst, he said, the Sussexes had accused his family of ‘unconscious bias’. Viewers recalling Meghan’s detailed answers to Oprah Winfrey would be puzzled whether Harry genuinely believed his version. After all, the previous week in New York, he had heard Meghan utter exactly the same accusation of the Royal Family’s racism. His only consistency was refusing to name the family members who had raised the subject.</p>
<p class="txt">Fired up, Harry turned the tables. He accused the British media of racism – proven by their ‘absolutely horrendous’ reports about Susan Hussey whom ‘Meghan and I love’ (though Meghan’s Kensington Palace staff recalled the Duchess’s dislike of Hussey). And William, said Harry, had ‘thrown her under a bus’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-348" id="en0-348" role="doc-noteref">348</a></sup> Harry forgot that Ngozi Fulani had started the campaign against Hussey on Instagram.</p>
<p class="txt">William’s sin, said Harry, was to authorise his staff to deliberately ‘trash’ his and Meghan’s reputations. Along with Buckingham Palace, his brother and father fed the tabloids with lies to ‘create as much conflict as possible’. His family was ‘complicit’ in causing the ‘pain and suffering’ inflicted on Meghan. He explained, he had ‘written’ the book as a tool to ‘protect’ himself.</p>
<p class="txt">After announcing his willingness to forgive, he told Bradby that he was amazed how his family ‘feel as though it’s better to keep us somehow <span id="page_182"/>as the villains . . . They’ve shown absolutely no willingness to reconcile. They haven’t said a single thing.’ His family, he complained, had not admitted their mistakes. Once his family felt accountable, they should apologise to him and Meghan and ask for ‘forgiveness’ – which was ‘a 100 per cent possibility’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-349" id="en0-349" role="doc-noteref">349</a></sup> He added mournfully, ‘It never needed to be this way. I would like to get my father back. I would like to have my brother back.’</p>
<p class="txt">Displaying a lack of self-awareness, Harry was asked by Bradby what he would say to William. ‘What I have to say to them will be in private,’ Harry replied without any irony. ‘None of this is done with the intention of hurting any of my family.’ He had written nothing that was ‘scathing’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-350" id="en0-350" role="doc-noteref">350</a></sup> Harry clearly suffered no guilt about his betrayal.</p>
<p class="txt">Towards the end of his interview, Bradby told Harry that many Britons wished he would ‘shut up and stop talking’. Harry looked puzzled: ‘Stop talking about what?’ he asked.</p>
<p class="txt">Besides his damning accusations against Charles, William and Kate, Harry targeted Camilla. In his book, Harry accused Camilla of leaking to the media her first meeting with William.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-351" id="en0-351" role="doc-noteref">351</a></sup> Moehringer or his fact-checker could easily have discovered that Harry’s accusation was untrue. Camilla’s assistant had indiscreetly told her husband, a <em>Times</em> journalist, about the meeting and resigned in embarrassment. More accurately, Harry accused his father of hiring a skilled publicist to cultivate the public image of Camilla as his future wife.</p>
<p class="txt">Most of his bile about Camilla had been removed from the manuscript, except how he had begged his father not to marry Camilla.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-352" id="en0-352" role="doc-noteref">352</a></sup> But in his interview with Anderson Cooper, Harry could not resist. Camilla, he said with relish, was ‘dangerous. She was the villain. She was the third person in the marriage.’ Ruthlessly, he said she had pursued Charles and the Crown. To rehabilitate her image, said Harry, Camilla had gone to ‘bed with the devil’ – she ‘traded information’ with the tabloids and ‘bodies were left in the street’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-353" id="en0-353" role="doc-noteref">353</a></sup> The principal ‘body’, he believed, was <span id="page_183"/>himself. Harry was firing at sitting ducks. Whatever he said, he knew that neither Camilla nor the other royals would retaliate. For the good of the monarchy, they believed, silence was their only option.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-354" id="en0-354" role="doc-noteref">354</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Asked by Cooper why, given the animosity, the Sussexes didn’t renounce their titles, Harry replied, ‘And what difference would that make?’</p>
<p class="txt">Even then, the Prince had not grasped his wife’s strategy of commercially exploiting her royal status. To those who suggested that Meghan’s soul was bent on fame and fortune, Harry snapped, ‘That’s a distorted narrative.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-355" id="en0-355" role="doc-noteref">355</a></sup> Their move to California, Harry said with certainty to CBS, was not motivated by making money: ‘We were dedicated to a life of service, as is proven by everything that we’re doing now with the work that we do.’ Although Harry knew that Meghan was setting up websites as the ‘Duchess of Sussex’ to sell food and clothes, he remained reassured that their lives were dedicated to philanthropy.</p>
<p class="txt">The morning after Cooper’s interview was broadcast, Harry reappeared on CBS’s <em>Good Morning America.</em> Overnight, Harry had been persuaded that attacking Camilla was an error. Despite her being a marriage wrecker, he told the morning’s audience, ‘I have a huge amount of compassion for Camilla. I don’t look at her as an evil stepmother.’ But, he admitted, they had not spoken for a ‘long time’.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Nothing that I’ve done in this book,’ Harry said with a straight face, ‘has ever been with any intention to harm or hurt [the Royal Family].’ Echoing Archewell’s website, he was ‘leading the way with compassion’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-356" id="en0-356" role="doc-noteref">356</a></sup> Whether Harry genuinely believed those sentiments was impossible for the viewer to decide. He gave no hint of love for any member of his family. Asked to justify publishing his memoir, he replied with certainty: ‘I have thought about it long and hard and as far as I can see it, the divide couldn’t be greater before this book.’</p>
<p class="txt">In a hitch to the carefully managed publication plan, <em>Spare</em> had been prematurely released in Spain. Working their translators at breakneck <span id="page_184"/>speed, the British tabloids filled up to ten pages every day with Harry’s accusations and revelations. Among the most sensational was his description of killing twenty-five members of the Taliban like ‘chess pieces’ or ‘Bads taken away before they could kill Goods’. His revelation was denounced in Britain. ‘This is not how we behave in the army,’ said Colonel Tim Collins, famous for his inspirational speech on the eve of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. ‘It’s not how we think. He has badly let the side down.’ Harry’s revelations, Collins told <em>Forces News</em>, were ‘clearly a tragic money-making scam to fund the lifestyle he can’t afford and someone else has chosen’. Collins went further. Harry was accused of not only being racist but ‘has now turned against the other family – the military – that once embraced him, having trashed his birth family’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-357" id="en0-357" role="doc-noteref">357</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The senior officer’s criticism stung Harry. He had not anticipated any repercussions. His reaction was familiar. In reporting his own words, he told his TV interviewer, the media had perpetuated ‘the most dangerous lie they ever told’. His revelation of killing twenty-five Taliban had been twisted, he said. The British press, he continued, was guilty of endangering his family by exposing the Sussexes to Islamic terror.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-358" id="en0-358" role="doc-noteref">358</a></sup> In Harry’s world, he could never do wrong. Even accurately repeating his own words was proof of the media’s bad intentions.</p>
<p class="txt">Twenty-four hours after <em>Spare</em> was published, Harry received a message from Buckingham Palace that on King Charles’s orders he was expelled from Frogmore. His description of Camilla as ‘evil’ was arguably the final straw. The eviction remained a secret. Incandescent, Harry called his father urging that the expulsion be revoked. Having failed to speak to his father, he was told that the £2.4 million for renovations would be repaid to the Sussexes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-359" id="en0-359" role="doc-noteref">359</a></sup> On 29th June 2023, Harry changed his primary residence to Montecito.</p>
<p class="txt">The day after he lost Frogmore, Harry arrived at <em>The Late Show</em> presenter Stephen Colbert’s TV studio in New York with a bevy of bodyguards visibly carrying Glock firearms. Clearly filled with adrenaline, <span id="page_185"/>Harry admitted, ‘Once the book came out, I felt incredibly free. A huge weight off my chest.’ After five minutes describing his frostbite to ‘my man piece, my Johnson, my Wilson, my Todger, my Willy’ necessitating his use of a ‘cock cushion’, Harry’s aggression resurfaced. William was his target: his brother’s ‘scowl’, his ‘alarming baldness’ and his jealousy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-360" id="en0-360" role="doc-noteref">360</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Sales of <em>Spare</em> soared. The reaction in Britain was not favourable. The book, concluded <em>The Times</em>, was ‘deeply unedifying’, revenge with ‘tacky stuff’ by ‘mining the same depths of his despair’. The newspaper advised Harry, ‘Don’t come to the Coronation. Live quietly and privately in America. Please, not here.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-361" id="en0-361" role="doc-noteref">361</a></sup> ‘Every time he opens his mouth,’ wrote Sarah Vine in the <em>Daily Mail,</em> ‘or puts pen to paper, he vomits another hairball from his past, coated in bile.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-362" id="en0-362" role="doc-noteref">362</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">America’s reaction was mixed. <em>New York</em> Magazine observed: ‘Their lack of self-awareness can make even their legitimate complaints seem grating.’ The <em>Wall Street Journal</em> was acidic: ‘What may gall the reader the most is the hypocrisy.’ The <em>National Review</em> criticised his ‘betrayal of family, of country’. Even Don Lemon, a Sussex supporter, asked: ‘What exactly is he achieving by airing family dirty laundry?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-363" id="en0-363" role="doc-noteref">363</a></sup> But the Anglophobic <em>New York Times</em> published a series of eulogies of Harry and damnation of British media and the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">Columnist Pamela Paul praised Harry and Meghan as ‘martyrs, revolutionaries or simply change-makers’ for seeing America as a ‘haven’ from Britain – cursed as ‘anti-immigrant, overrun with racists and burdened by the legacy of colonialism’. Paul aligned with Meghan: ‘America loves a melodrama, an against-all-odds story, an Us versus Them. America loves an almost happily-ever-after and any gossip that keeps on giving. As is now abundantly clear, Harry and Meghan are giving their all to give America all of that.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-364" id="en0-364" role="doc-noteref">364</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The vitriol of columnist Zeynep Tufekci was pitiless. Piers Morgan, she wrote in the <em>New York Times</em>, led the ‘swamp of commentators of Britain’s atrocious but politically influential tabloids’. Guilty of <span id="page_186"/>‘whipping hatred and spreading lies’, Harry stood against them alone: ‘My impression from his memoir is that Harry wants to make a crusade of applying sunlight to corrupt media practices and his family’s participation in them. If he succeeds in fighting the vile forces that he feels contributed to his mother’s death and imperilled his newfound love, he might bring a greater sense of decency in Britain, and maybe even curtail the power of the worst practices in media. Good luck to him.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-365" id="en0-365" role="doc-noteref">365</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">America and Britain were divided. The Sussexes’ popularity in Britain had slumped to around 20 per cent. <em>Newsweek</em> polls showed Harry’s ratings had fallen from December to January by 45 points to minus 7, while Meghan’s fell from plus 36 to minus 13. In America, around 50 per cent of those polled supported the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">The division in America and Britain was racially split too. Three-quarters of black Britons and nearly half of Asians polled believed that Meghan was a victim of racist bias. While white Britons polled voted by a majority of 40 per cent to keep the monarchy, a majority of Asian and black people condemned the monarchy as an irrelevant, exclusive institution reflecting Britain’s prejudice and intolerance. The monarchy, they believed, should be abolished.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-366" id="en0-366" role="doc-noteref">366</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Buckingham Palace was paralysed. The sharp conflict of public opinion made finding an obvious solution near impossible. An Ipsos poll showed that Harry’s book had damaged the Royal Family. Their support fell from 54 per cent to 46 per cent. William’s own popularity rating fell from 74 per cent to 63 per cent and only half those polled said they thought Charles would make a good king.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-367" id="en0-367" role="doc-noteref">367</a></sup> Playing down the harm, one senior official puffed that ‘The book did not cause real damage.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-368" id="en0-368" role="doc-noteref">368</a></sup> Another Palace insider claimed that ‘It is exhausting, it is exasperating, but it is not distracting. It will burn itself out.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-369" id="en0-369" role="doc-noteref">369</a></sup> The Sussexes hoped he was wrong.</p>
<p class="txt">J. R. Moehringer hated the criticism, especially when British news-papers, illustrating Harry’s dishonesty, catalogued the book’s factual <span id="page_187"/>errors. For some, Moehringer’s worst mistake was to damn the tabloids’ description of Meghan’s first public engagement with the Queen in Chester as an ‘unmitigated disaster’. In reality, every newspaper had hailed it a huge success. Except, they noted, that Meghan got into a car before the Queen – at the monarch’s request. In Harry’s mind, the media’s failure to hail Meghan as perfect proved its malice. Moehringer agreed. On Twitter, he retorted that the tabloids’ ‘corrupt media ecology’ had fuelled the racist pursuit of Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-370" id="en0-370" role="doc-noteref">370</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Still incensed, Moehringer wrote a damnation of Britain’s newspapers in the <em>New Yorker</em> magazine. His conspiracy theory linked the media’s criticism of Harry with Brexit.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-371" id="en0-371" role="doc-noteref">371</a></sup> ‘He’s lost the plot,’ sighed one senior Random House editor. ‘A belligerent response,’ said another editor. ‘He should have been calmer and more collected.’ Asked about the probability of another book from Harry, UK publisher Transworld’s managing director Larry Finlay was distinctly cool about repeating the experience.</p>
<p class="txt">Sensitive to the criticism, Harry called his old friends in Britain. To his surprise, the shires had erupted. They felt betrayed. For years, his friends and their parents had remained silent about the drugs, girls and Harry’s escapades. ‘I’m staggered by your disloyalty,’ emailed one of his oldest friends. ‘You’re cruel and cowardly,’ wrote another. The father of one close friend also emailed his dismay to Harry. Harry’s self-justifying replies fell on stony ground.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-372" id="en0-372" role="doc-noteref">372</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In his fourth TV interview, Harry threatened that within the four hundred pages deleted from the final manuscript was ‘a shit ton of dirt about my family’, especially ‘things that have happened’ with William and Charles, ‘that I just don’t want the world to know. Because I don’t think they would ever forgive me.’ He was still waiting for Charles or William to call with an apology. Exasperated by their silence he finally snapped: ‘They will never forgive me anyway.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-373" id="en0-373" role="doc-noteref">373</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt"><span id="page_188"/>Guests at a private dinner hosted by Charles and Camilla at Clarence House during that week were surprised by the King’s reluctance to confront Harry openly. Surely, they assumed, he would not tolerate Harry’s criticism of Camilla. ‘Of course it bothers her; of course it hurts,’ her friend Fiona Shelburne (Lady Lansdowne) confided, ‘but she doesn’t let it get to her.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-374" id="en0-374" role="doc-noteref">374</a></sup> No one knew that Harry had been evicted from Frogmore but everyone recognised Charles’s natural preference to shy away from arguments. He was clearly torn. With Charles fearing that his reign would be wrecked by Harry and Meghan, there was half-hearted talk of reconciliation before the coronation.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s mention of reconciliation had appealed to some Palace officials but others, especially those close to William and Kate, suspected that some media reports had been invented by Harry’s publicists to justify his complaints. In any event, reconciliation required an honest broker and there wasn’t one. Perhaps, some suggested, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, could act as a mediator, but that idea was discarded. Reconciliation, Palace officials were told, was ‘a long journey and could only start by both sides refraining from saying nasty things. They can disagree but without attacking each other.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-375" id="en0-375" role="doc-noteref">375</a></sup> Another insider advised that the Windsors should remember that they are a family. But emotions were too raw. With Harry intent on continuing his public destabilisation of the Royal Family, and both William and Kate outraged by Harry’s betrayal, each side’s demand for the other’s unconditional surrender perpetuated the family’s anger. The Palace chose silence as its only option while planning the coronation.</p>
<p class="txt">Even so, William could not resist replying to an onlooker’s call during a visit to Liverpool: ‘Keep going, Will. Scousers love you!’</p>
<p class="txt">‘I will do,’ William replied.</p>
<p class="txt">The Waleses’ suspicion of Harry was only trumped by their distrust of Meghan. Homing in on human weakness was her speciality. The number of her victims – her father, ex-husband, countless friends and former <span id="page_189"/>staff – seemingly confirmed her habit of exacting vengeance against anyone deemed to be dispensable. Her presence at the coronation would encourage a circus. The Waleses’ opposition to Charles’s surrender to Harry was matched by the King’s fear of public criticism if he openly pursued for peace. Deep down he assumed that Harry would come, not least to boost Meghan’s commercial ambitions.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-376" id="en0-376" role="doc-noteref">376</a></sup> But the Palace’s suspicions were fuelled by Harry’s refusal to commit. He was seen to be playing games.</p>
<p class="txt">‘The door is always open,’ Harry told CBS. ‘The ball is in their court. There’s a lot to be discussed and I really hope that they’re willing to sit down and talk about it.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-377" id="en0-377" role="doc-noteref">377</a></sup> Harry knew that his constitutional status depended on attending. While hoping to reverse his demotion, Harry must have also known that Meghan would never return to London to face the Royal Family she had mocked and deceived. Reassured by Camilla that Harry could not ruin the ceremony, Charles relieved the tension by calling him. He encouraged his son to attend the coronation. Perhaps inevitably, the Sussexes leaked the conversation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-378" id="en0-378" role="doc-noteref">378</a></sup> The formal invitation to the Sussexes was issued at the beginning of February 2023.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-379" id="en0-379" role="doc-noteref">379</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Two weeks later, a widely publicised <em>South Park</em> episode entitled ‘The Worldwide Privacy Tour’ depicted the Prince and Princess of Canada –‘a dumb prince and his stupid wife’ – as irritating hypocrites. ‘We just want to be normal people,’ moaned the cartoon prince, demanding privacy. ‘This attention is so hard.’ Holding a placard saying ‘We Want Privacy’ and ‘Stop Looking At Us’, the Princess shouted through a megaphone: ‘We are here because privacy is a basic human right.’ At the end of a meaningless conversation, the prince opened his wife’s head and found it empty. The satirists had illustrated the truth that beyond complaining, the Sussexes had nothing original to say. In the satirists’ eyes, they had been perfect fodder for the Royal Family – waving, smiling and greeting. The couple’s threat to sue the production house for defamation was quickly abandoned.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-380" id="en0-380" role="doc-noteref">380</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_190"/>The ridicule failed to dent the next stage of the marketing of Harry’s book – and embarrassing his family. As always, nothing was left to chance. For the first time that year, Harry and Meghan were ‘seen’ at San Vicente Bungalows, a Hollywood restaurant. That was the publicists’ curtain-raiser to a confected interview of Harry by 79-year-old Dr Gabor Maté, a Hungarian-born expert on addiction living in Canada. Under the heading ‘Living with Loss and Personal Healing’, Maté advertised himself as a specialist on the impact of childhood trauma.</p>
<p class="txt">By now, to many it looked as if Harry had monetised his interest in mental health. As a coach for BetterUp, a Californian corporation offering to improve happiness and productivity through counselling and behavioural psychology, Harry was paid about $1 million to speak about his own ‘burn-out’ and four years of therapy in order to help other sufferers to ‘find their flow’ and ‘unlock potential and opportunity’. Benefiting from ‘sound advice to heal myself from the past’ and ‘a fresh perspective’, Harry advertised himself as cured. ‘I am not a person with a disorder,’ said the BetterUp salesman.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-381" id="en0-381" role="doc-noteref">381</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">At that time, BetterUp and other mental health corporations had gained advantage from the Covid pandemic. Across Europe and America, countless people were self-diagnosing as new sufferers. Millions of Britons, especially those under thirty, were identifying new mental health problems. Declaring their inability to work, many demanded state benefits. In Britain, welfare claims had surged by 40 per cent over the past year. Britain’s Access to Work scheme was paying some self-diagnosed ADHD sufferers nearly £70,000 a year tax-free for support.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-382" id="en0-382" role="doc-noteref">382</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Among the critics of Harry’s encouragement of self-diagnosing mental health difficulties was the psychotherapist Julia Samuel, the trusted friend of Diana. ‘Banging on with promiscuous honesty, telling everyone everything, doesn’t help any of us,’ she wrote. ‘The endless repetition of perceived injustices to anyone who will listen won’t relieve problems.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-383" id="en0-383" role="doc-noteref">383</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry ignored Samuel’s advice. ‘Self-compassion has to be the <span id="page_191"/>priority,’ said Harry. He was ‘turning my pain into purpose’. The solution to mental health problems, he said, was making a break or leaving one’s job. ‘Resignations aren’t all bad’ was his motto, even for those without his privilege and money.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-384" id="en0-384" role="doc-noteref">384</a></sup> His televised ‘intimate conversation’ with Gabor Maté was advertised to his followers as ‘a continuation of my mental health journey’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-385" id="en0-385" role="doc-noteref">385</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Choosing Maté as an interviewer cast another shadow over Harry’s judgement. Not only because of Maté’s advocacy of decriminalising every drug, but because Maté had praised the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas as ‘heroes’. Maté also denied that Jeremy Corbyn was antisemitic, even though the former Labour Party leader had been expelled from his party over allegations of antisemitism.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-386" id="en0-386" role="doc-noteref">386</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Watching Harry and Maté’s livestream conversation on 4th March 2023 cost Britons £19, which included a copy of <em>Spare</em>. On the eve of the broadcast, Buckingham Palace leaked the news of Harry’s eviction from Frogmore. That decision baited Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">In a gloomy wood-panelled room partially lit by a roaring fire, Harry leant forward nervously in his armchair to tell Maté about Charles’s responsibility for his ‘broken home upbringing’. Abandoned by his family, said Harry, he had endured ‘an incredibly painful childhood’, starved of affection, especially hugs. Only thanks to therapy and illegal drugs had his quest to find his ‘authentic true self’ succeeded.</p>
<p class="txt">‘You can be wounded by not having your needs met as a young child,’ agreed Maté.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I started to go slightly off the rails,’ continued Harry, ‘and dealt with it through drinking and drugs.’ Maté endorsed Harry’s use of hallucinogenic drugs as Harry added, ‘If you are suffering from a huge amount of loss, grief or trauma, then these things have a way of working as a medicine.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘It was a story of deprivation,’ agreed Maté. As the wizened therapist spouted out a list of Harry’s mental illnesses, the privileged Prince rolled <span id="page_192"/>over in agreement, seemingly delighting at being the centre of attention, a sucker for Maté’s psycho-babble. Drug addiction could soothe the trauma, agreed Maté. Harry nodded. When Maté rebuked him for fighting in Afghanistan, Harry forgot his loyalties. Instead, Harry told the Hamas supporter how his fellow British soldiers were society’s victims and had actually opposed the war. His pride in killing twenty-five Taliban fighters – as written in his memoir – was forgotten.</p>
<p class="txt">The conversation lasted eighty-six minutes. In retrospect, Maté cursed himself for taking part. The British media’s negative and dismissive reaction to the ‘merchant of pain’, admitted Maté, ‘really got to me and put me in a very negative state of mind.’ Harry was also, by now, feeling dissatisfied. ‘I’m feeling more and more distant from my loved ones and my family,’ Harry lamented. ‘This is a problem.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-387" id="en0-387" role="doc-noteref">387</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Once the spotlight had been turned off, Harry reverted to his daily routine. Exercise in the gym, playing with Archie, an occasional cycle ride, smoking cannabis in his garden and walking the dogs along the beach. Other than sporadic calls about the Invictus Games due in September in Düsseldorf, he was preoccupied with the five legal cases he was fighting in London’s High Court. Three were against British media groups and two separate cases were against the Home Office. His courtroom battle against the Home Office had so far cost the taxpayer over £300,000 in legal fees. His own costs were higher.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-388" id="en0-388" role="doc-noteref">388</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry called his London lawyers, sometimes late at night, to discuss technicalities and then sought out a single British friend to confide in. ‘He’ll still regularly talk to me about obscure journalists and stuff done to his mother,’ recalled one friend. Harry repeated his determination to challenge Rupert Murdoch and to ‘fight this battle to the bitter end’. Because only his insurers risked millions of pounds if he lost, he said boldly: ‘Murdoch has offered me over £1 million to settle but I won’t.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-389" id="en0-389" role="doc-noteref">389</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan said nothing meaningful in the aftermath of the publicity splurge. Harry was on his own.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>