<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 20</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct20" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct20"><span id="page_193"/>CHAPTER 20</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>High Court</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Billed as ‘The Duchess of Sussex’, six weeks after Harry’s book tour, Meghan starred in a video promoting Clevr Blends coffee.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-390" id="en0-390" role="doc-noteref">390</a></sup> She owned a stake in the company that sold powdered drinks containing ‘calming’ additives for sleep, wellness and to treat anxiety. Meghan described Clevr as a woman-only corporation, although the co-founder was male.</p>
<p class="txt">For a fee, the Duchess also promoted latte powders, luxury Tatcha skincare products and Eberjey bathrobes. On Amazon’s website, Eberjey cost about ten times more than similar robes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-391" id="en0-391" role="doc-noteref">391</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan had wielded spectacular influence during her first outing with Harry to Nottingham in 2017. The £545 Strathberry bag she carried was an instant sell-out. Undoubtedly keen to capitalise on the commercial value of her fashion choices, she had been surprised to be struck down by Buckingham Palace’s veto. The dispute came to a head with her decision to quit Britain. If she could not profit from her fame, she would take the highway. Five years later, Meghan was photographed with a Cesta bag on a dinner date with Cameron Diaz and Gwyneth Paltrow. Hours later, Cesta’s founders, Erin Ryder and <span id="page_194"/>Courtney Weinblatt Fasciano, discovered the Meghan effect: ‘All of a sudden, this one style that had been a little bit sleepy was totally sold through. We had more sales in one day than we’ve ever had.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-392" id="en0-392" role="doc-noteref">392</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By 2023, Meghan’s portfolio included more than five brands. ‘Investing in them has helped me line up for this chapter where I’m investing in myself,’ Meghan said.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-393" id="en0-393" role="doc-noteref">393</a></sup> Several other products were under consideration for her endorsement.</p>
<p class="txt">The tabloids’ lies which drove us out of Britain,’ according to Harry, were describing their move to California as motivated to make money.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-394" id="en0-394" role="doc-noteref">394</a></sup> But this was another lie, said Harry, and the truth, he told Tom Bradby, was so different: ‘We were dedicated to a life of service, as is proven by everything that we’re doing now with the work that we do.’ Earning cash was irrelevant, Harry insisted. Outsiders wondered whether Harry was the victim of self-deception or Meghan’s deception – or was he just an outright liar. Harry, it appeared, was unaware that his wife’s ambition was dedicated to becoming a celebrity billionaire. Performing for charity emerged as Meghan’s means to promote her brand. Amid her publicist’s patter of brand separation from Harry, abandoning the victim narrative and neutralising the toxicity of Netflix and <em>Spare</em>, Meghan was presented as a fun, powerful, optimistic woman leading with love.</p>
<p class="txt">To earn her fortune, she signed up with Ari Emanuel at the William Morris Endeavor talent agency. Emanuel’s agency also represented Oprah Winfrey, Serena Williams and Tyler Perry. ‘If Ari can’t build her into a global brand, no one can,’ commented an expert. In a specially commissioned photo shoot, Meghan presented herself with a blow-dried look as a putative Hollywood mogul.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-395" id="en0-395" role="doc-noteref">395</a></sup> Then followed a series of unfortunate events.</p>
<p class="txt">One year earlier, the Sussexes had starred as <em>Time</em> magazine’s Most Influential People in the World. Now, they were not even mentioned as one of <em>Time</em>’s Top 100. Unexpectedly, they had not been invited to Barack Obama’s sixtieth birthday party or to the Clooneys’ humanitarian <span id="page_195"/>awards party in New York, despite Amal having been a guest at Meghan’s New York baby shower in 2019.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-396" id="en0-396" role="doc-noteref">396</a></sup> Meghan had even flown back to London in Amal Clooney’s private jet. The change of attitudes was inspired by the Royal Family’s unhappiness with the Sussexes. America’s A-listers had chosen sides.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s income now depended on retaining her royal title and securing titles for her children. Buckingham Palace’s website listed Master Archie Mountbatten-Windsor and Miss Lilibet Mountbatten-Windsor. Despite Harry’s demands, the King still refused to sign the letters patent to rename the children as prince and princess.</p>
<p class="txt">No one in the Palace had forgotten Meghan’s insistence at Archie’s birth that her children would not accept titles. From her ‘experience’, she explained, titles caused ‘a lot of pain’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-397" id="en0-397" role="doc-noteref">397</a></sup> Two years later, Meghan told Oprah Winfrey that the Royal Family had originally intended to deny the unborn Archie a title because of ‘the colour of his skin’. That accusation changed in 2023. Despite the Royal Family’s racism and the Palace’s refusal to protect the Duchess from suicide, Meghan demanded the Windsors’ titles. In their quest for legitimacy, she and Harry could not bear that their children should not have the same rank as William’s children.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-398" id="en0-398" role="doc-noteref">398</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring Charles’s procrastination, on 3rd March 2023, the Sussexes hosted a christening in Montecito for 21-month-old Lilibet. The Bishop of Los Angeles, the Reverend John Harvey Taylor, a former newspaper reporter and Richard Nixon’s one-time chief of staff, blessed Princess Lilibet Diana Mountbatten-Windsor in the garden, watched by Diana’s sisters, Jane Fellowes and Sarah McCorquodale. Tyler Perry was named as her godfather. Unlike all others employed by the Sussexes, the bishop was not asked to sign an NDA. The event and the naming of ‘the prince and princess’ was announced in <em>People</em> magazine.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-399" id="en0-399" role="doc-noteref">399</a></sup> The Palace’s official court circular ignored the baptism.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles refused the invitation to the christening but finally relented <span id="page_196"/>to Harry’s demands. Days later, Buckingham Palace officially recognised his grandchildren’s titles. Instantly, Meghan instructed her lawyers to change Prince Archie’s and Princess Lilibet’s surnames from Mountbatten-Windsor to Sussex.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Focused on detoxifying her image and earning her own fortune, Meghan had ‘checked out’ of Harry’s passion to defeat the tabloids. Though, in her bid to avoid collateral damage, she nevertheless paid more than lip service to Harry’s life’s mission to get police protection. Not because she planned to return to Britain, but she did fear Harry was vulnerable to assassins. She also believed Harry’s father could have intervened to provide protection.</p>
<p class="txt">To avoid Harry’s embarrassing demands, Charles had ordered that his son’s telephone calls be blocked. ‘His Majesty is unavailable,’ was the standard answer. The rejection fed Harry’s paranoia of a conspiracy against him orchestrated by unsympathetic Palace officials. In retaliation, Harry further inflamed relations by briefing <em>People</em> magazine about his father’s stubbornness.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-400" id="en0-400" role="doc-noteref">400</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Clearly enjoying the controversy, Harry arrived in London on a private jet from Miami at the end of March 2023 for the first hearing in his case against the <em>Mail</em> group.Unexpectedly, Charles was in London. After an outbreak of riots across France protesting President Macron’s government, the King’s two-day state visit to Paris had been cancelled. Clearly, Charles had an empty diary, but Harry was told that his father was ‘busy’ and ‘unavailable’. The King was evidently unwilling to be associated with Harry’s legal warfare.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-401" id="en0-401" role="doc-noteref">401</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s first case was his continuing defamation claim against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>; the second case against the <em>Mail</em> group was the new claim based on unlawful bugging. Ignoring the criticism from the King and Palace officials that royals should not risk opening up ‘a can of <span id="page_197"/>worms’ by testifying in the witness box, Harry was pleased he could attack the <em>Mail’</em>s ‘unchecked power, influence and criminality’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-402" id="en0-402" role="doc-noteref">402</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Once again, Harry was relying on Sherborne. The lawyer had read the <em>Mail</em>’s financial records provided to the Leveson media inquiry in 2012. To keep those files secure, Judge Leveson had given the <em>Mail</em>’s editor his assurance of total confidentiality. The <em>Mail</em>’s files, Leveson had promised, would not be passed on or read by anyone beyond the inquiry. Sherborne had signed an undertaking not to ‘disclose, publish or use the documents’. Yet suddenly, Harry’s solicitor possessed the <em>Mail</em>’s files. Sherborne explained that the records were given to Harry’s solicitor by ‘an investigative journalist at an online media publication who has not revealed his source’. Sherborne denied there was any evidence that the files had been obtained from Leveson’s archives.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-403" id="en0-403" role="doc-noteref">403</a></sup> Within the historic files was evidence of payments by the <em>Mail</em> group to private investigators. The unanswered question was whether any of those investigators had acted unlawfully and whether they had illegally targeted Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">On the first day of the hearing, Harry sat in Courtroom 76 with Elton John, Doreen Lawrence and Sadie Frost. He heard the <em>Mail’</em>s lawyers argue that Harry’s ‘preposterous’ case should be dismissed without a trial. Harry bluntly replied that if the <em>Mail</em>’s attempt to evade justice was successful ‘the whole country is doomed’.</p>
<p class="txt">As usual, Sherborne pitched to the gallery. With the information provided by Harry, said Sherborne, Doreen Lawrence apparently had become ‘deeply paranoid’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-404" id="en0-404" role="doc-noteref">404</a></sup> On Lawrence’s behalf the lawyer said, ‘She finds it hard to believe the level of duplicity and manipulation that was clearly at play, knowing now that the <em>Daily Mail’</em>s support for her fight to bring Stephen’s killers to justice was hollow and worse, entirely false.’ As he sat in court, Harry was given the chance to consider the extraordinary collection of convicted criminals that he had aligned himself with for the trial. Among the witnesses Harry was destined to call <span id="page_198"/>was Daniel ‘Danno’ Portley-Hanks, a private investigator. He admitted being arrested about fifty times and convicted ‘more times than I can remember’, including for extortion for a criminal gang. He had spent eight years in prison.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-405" id="en0-405" role="doc-noteref">405</a></sup> Harry would also call Jonathan Rees, a private investigator who had been jailed for seven years for perverting the course of justice.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-406" id="en0-406" role="doc-noteref">406</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry also had to consider whether to rely, as Sherborne advised, on Christine Hart, a former journalist, ‘blagger’ and private investigator.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-407" id="en0-407" role="doc-noteref">407</a></sup> Accused of targeting Lawrence and others to illegally obtain medical records, Hart strongly denied carrying out any unlawful activities for newspapers. However, she did describe an approach by Graham Johnson, a former <em>News of the World</em> reporter, to help Hugh Grant’s complaint against the <em>Mail</em>. ‘Grant was out to destroy/get the <em>Mail</em>,’ Johnson allegedly told Hart.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-408" id="en0-408" role="doc-noteref">408</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Graham Johnson was publicly described as a ‘self-confessed professional liar’ who admitted that he had ‘no integrity at all’ after he was sacked from the <em>News of the World</em> for fabricating stories. Accused of ‘destroying people’s lives using illegal means,’ he was employed by Harry’s solicitors.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-409" id="en0-409" role="doc-noteref">409</a></sup> In Harry’s case, Johnson admitted that he paid Christine Hart £16,000 for information and had agreed to pay £5,000 to Harry’s star witness, the private investigator Gavin Burrows, to ‘provide evidence to back up claims’ made in his original statement. Johnson, it was suggested, had been loaned £500,000 by Max Mosley, the deceased Formula One racing executive and financier of litigation against the tabloids.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-410" id="en0-410" role="doc-noteref">410</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Sherborne did not convincingly explain to the judge how it was possible that Gavin Burrows had signed two statements – one for Harry admitting his dishonesty and another for the <em>Mail</em> utterly denying that he had ever committed any dishonest acts against Harry and the others. ‘I wish to make clear,’ stated Burrows, ‘that I was never instructed or commissioned by anyone at the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> or the <em>Daily Mail</em> to <span id="page_199"/>conduct unlawful information-gathering on their behalf.’ Against each of Harry’s allegations of Burrows’s crimes, he stated for the <em>Mail</em>, ‘This is false.’ Among Burrows’s rebuttals was an outright denial that he collected cash regularly left by the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> at a drop-off in London’s Regent Street.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-411" id="en0-411" role="doc-noteref">411</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In that wilderness of mirrors, Harry did not question how a member of the Royal Family could rely on Paul Hawkes, a convicted phone hacker. Hawkes testified that he was brought into the case by another convicted private investigator, Dan Evans. According to Hawkes, he was told by Evans ‘it would be in my best interests’ to testify that he had hacked Hugh Grant’s computer. After Hawkes refused to sign an untrue statement, Evans allegedly threatened to ‘destroy’ him. Hawkes also accused Evans of having threatened to ruin him if he didn’t ‘play ball’ and testify for Harry in his claim against the <em>Mirror</em>.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-412" id="en0-412" role="doc-noteref">412</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Adding to the murkiness, members of the claimants’ ‘legal research team’ were also allegedly pursuing unethical means to avoid the six-year limitation rule: once the claimant knew about the alleged illegality, he or she had six years to bring the claim. According to the <em>Mail</em>’s counsel, ‘corrupted’ emails between members of the team showed that at least two claimants, including Sadie Frost, had discussed their cases more than six years before they issued their claims.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-413" id="en0-413" role="doc-noteref">413</a></sup> The researchers were accused of concocting a ruse to ‘camouflage’ that destructive timeline, something both lawyers and their claimants denied.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-414" id="en0-414" role="doc-noteref">414</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">At the end of a four-day hearing, Judge Matthew Nicklin called Sherborne’s explanation about the appearance of the <em>Mail</em>’s financial ledgers ‘theoretical . . . even fanciful’. ‘To rely on the archives’, Nicklin said, would be ‘an abuse of process’ and ruled that Harry could not use them in his case.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-415" id="en0-415" role="doc-noteref">415</a></sup> Nicklin’s decision would later be overturned by the government in ‘the public interest’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-416" id="en0-416" role="doc-noteref">416</a></sup> But the <em>Mail</em> was encouraged that Harry’s lawyers, accused of delays, obfuscation and their alleged refusal to hand over key documents, had produced only one allegation of <span id="page_200"/>unlawful information-gathering by the newspaper against Harry. And, to the claimants’ lawyers’ embarrassment, they had to deny an alleged conspiracy – based on emails from their own research team – of a plot to overcome the laws of limitation, barring the right to bring a case six years after the complaint was known.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-417" id="en0-417" role="doc-noteref">417</a></sup> The route to the trial, due to start in January 2026, was strewn with accusations of skulduggery.</p>
<p class="txt">Unseen while he was in London, Harry discussed with Palace officials his proposed presence at the coronation on 6th May. No concessions were made about his seating position in the abbey. Additionally, he conceded that he would not enter the abbey in the procession nor stand on the Buckingham Palace balcony. Instead, after the ceremony he would be speedily driven to Heathrow to return immediately to California. He volunteered that Meghan would not come. Their official excuse was the clash with Archie’s birthday.</p>
<p class="txt">Some insiders were critical of the King and especially of Edward Young for denying Harry a role in the coronation. Young’s anger with the Sussexes, believed one senior official, forestalled any thought of how to accommodate Harry. ‘It was a catastrophe not to put Harry in the procession. He should have been given something to carry,’ suggested a senior official.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-418" id="en0-418" role="doc-noteref">418</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The final details were agreed after Harry had consulted Meghan on his return to Montecito. In the excitement building up to the coronation on 6th May, speculation resumed about a reconciliation between Harry and his family. Some suggested that he wanted to spend more time in Britain. The truth was different. Harry had no wish to live in Britain, not least because Meghan would refuse to join him.</p>
<p class="txt">Buckingham Palace announced on 12th April that the King was ‘happy’ that Harry would be in the abbey and was disappointed that Meghan and his grandchildren would not be there.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-419" id="en0-419" role="doc-noteref">419</a></sup> On the same day, depicting marked contrast with the fusty Royal Family, Meghan issued photographs of herself as the sun-kissed Californian girl. In her <span id="page_201"/>accompanying statement, the Duchess urged the media to stop ‘creating an exhausting circus’ around their lives.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-420" id="en0-420" role="doc-noteref">420</a></sup> Two weeks later, Meghan recreated their circus.</p>
<p class="txt">Clearly determined to be the ringmaster, she emerged from the shadows to stage her first public appearance of 2023 with Harry at the Los Angeles Lakers basketball stadium. Her message – that they were pursuing different career paths – was choreographed. As Harry tried to kiss her it was reported that she pulled away.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-421" id="en0-421" role="doc-noteref">421</a></sup> Harry’s emotions were being torn, and a time where, rather than seeking a ceasefire with his family, he was about to resume hostilities.</p>
<p class="txt">The battleground was the High Court and Harry’s claim against News UK for ‘unlawful information-gathering’. At the heart of his complaint was his perceived victimhood – he was the victim of the media, the government and the Royal Family. Breaking the convention that the Royal Family was always neutral, Harry issued a 31-page statement against Rupert Murdoch’s News UK and <em>Mirror</em> newspapers. Presenting himself as the knight in shining armour, he said: ‘Our country is judged globally by the state of our press and our government; both of whose reputations, I believe, are currently at rock bottom.’ He accused newspapers of failing to criticise the government but ‘getting into bed with them’ to maintain ‘the status quo’, conveniently forgetting that only one year earlier the newspapers had helped drive Prime Minister Boris Johnson out of Downing Street.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-422" id="en0-422" role="doc-noteref">422</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Specifically, Harry blamed the tabloids for causing ‘in large part’ his mental illness by their ‘grotesque and sadistic’ methods. The tabloids, he said, constantly coaxed a ‘damaged’ young man to excesses. His use of drugs, drinking, cavorting in the nude and dressing in a Nazi uniform was all the tabloids’ fault. He had to ‘play up’ to the tabloids’ headlines and the stereotypes ‘they wanted to place upon me’. Compounding his misery, they had exploited his mental health by describing him as a ‘failure’, ‘drop-out’, ‘thicko’, ‘cheat’, ‘underage <span id="page_202"/>drinker’ and ‘irresponsible drug-taker’. He feared that the public believed those descriptions. ‘This is brainwashing at the highest level,’ he said. Someone would hate him so much that they would stab him. Or, having killed his mother, their next victim would be Meghan. Journalists were killing innocent people. ‘How much more blood will stain their typing fingers before someone can put a stop to this madness?’ He accused journalists of aiming to ‘destroy our relationship and destroy my wife with their endless lies while giving a platform to her abusers’ and using ‘illegal methods to dig into her past’. He gave no examples of any illegal methods used against Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">Less than two weeks before the coronation, Harry loudly proclaimed – in his lawyers’ words – his noble cause: ‘There is no greater public interest argument than exposing the unlawful practices of those that act in the name of the public interest.’ He included the Royal Family among the perpetrators of illegality.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s specific complaint now was one he had made before, about his family’s secret conspiracy with Rupert Murdoch and News UK. To secure media support for Camilla to become Queen, Harry claimed that both Queen Elizabeth and Charles had agreed before 2012 not to sue News UK for hacking the Royal Family’s telephones. Once Camilla had been rehabilitated, said Harry, News UK had in 2020 secretly paid William £1 million as compensation for hacking.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-423" id="en0-423" role="doc-noteref">423</a></sup> That, he pronounced, was another example of William being treated more favourably than him. His ‘crusade’ against newspapers, he now claimed, was ‘central’ to the breakdown of his family’s relationships.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-424" id="en0-424" role="doc-noteref">424</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">His evidence of the conspiracy between the Palace and News UK was his failure to get the same £1 million compensation as William. After three years of negotiations between Sally Osman, the Palace’s director of communications, and News UK’s chief executive Robert Thomson, Harry’s claim against Murdoch’s newspapers and journalists for hacking into his phone had been sidelined. ‘We risk becoming a laughing stock,’ <span id="page_203"/>Harry emailed Osman in 2018 after she failed to get even a reply from Thomson.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-425" id="en0-425" role="doc-noteref">425</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In Harry’s scenario, the Queen’s and Charles’s secret agreement with News UK was implemented by Edward Young and other senior Palace officials. Thereafter, along with Charles, they had actively discouraged Harry from bringing his claim against News UK.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-426" id="en0-426" role="doc-noteref">426</a></sup> Inspired by Sherborne and his solicitors, Harry ignored the Palace’s objections to starting a case against Murdoch. In September 2019, he had issued a High Court claim against News UK. Nearly four years later, the case was still wending its way through the legal process.</p>
<p class="txt">At 4am on 25th April 2023, William was in London getting ready for a ceremony in Hyde Park to honour fallen soldiers for Anzac Day. Then he would complete an ITV documentary about homelessness. On the same day in Montecito, Harry got up in the middle of the night to log on to the livestream of a preliminary hearing of his case against News UK. To his horror, he heard Judge Timothy Fancourt question his honesty.</p>
<p class="txt">In combative mood, Sherborne told Fancourt that the Queen herself had been party to the secret deal to stop Harry’s claim against News UK. It was only after her death that the conspiracy could be exposed. Sherborne faced two obstacles. Both News UK and the Palace denied making any secret agreement and he possessed no evidence to prove the conspiracy.</p>
<p class="txt">Unimpressed by Sherborne, Fancourt turned on Harry. Why, he asked, did Harry not mention the ‘secret agreement’ at the outset of his claim? Nor was it specified in Harry’s statements of truth signed in 2019, 2021 or in his autobiography. Even his answers about when he discovered his phone was being hacked, declared the judge, were filled with ‘fanciful and factual inconsistencies’. And how could there have been a ‘secret payment’ if William received £1 million during the Queen’s lifetime?</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_204"/>Harry’s ‘secret agreement’ between the Palace and News UK, the judge was told, was ‘Alice in Wonderland stuff’ and a ‘construct’ by Harry’s lawyers. Fancourt found that Harry’s case ‘lacked credibility and cogency’, and was ‘inconsistent’, ‘vague and limited’. On that basis, Fancourt declared, Harry’s allegation of a secret agreement was an ‘implausible’ fantasy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-427" id="en0-427" role="doc-noteref">427</a></sup> For a member of the Royal Family to be subject to these criticisms by a judge was unprecedented. No outsider witnessed Harry’s embarrassment. The judge’s stark comments about Harry within his forty-page judgement would be publicised only after the coronation.</p>
<p class="txt">Nevertheless, the judge agreed that Harry’s lawyers should have access to News UK’s and the Palace’s emails.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-428" id="en0-428" role="doc-noteref">428</a></sup> Fancourt also allowed Harry to run a claim against News UK for their alleged illegal investigations and their unlawful invasion of his privacy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-429" id="en0-429" role="doc-noteref">429</a></sup> That success took second place to Harry’s case against the <em>Mirror,</em> which was due to begin shortly after the coronation.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>