<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 21</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct21" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct21"><span id="page_205"/>CHAPTER 21</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Coronation</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Just twenty-four hours before the coronation of King Charles III, Harry arrived at Heathrow from Los Angeles on an American Airlines flight. Denied any invitations to the Palace’s pre-coronation receptions or the three days of celebrations after the ceremony, he could not disguise his isolation. As agreed with the Palace, he was protected by armed policemen as he drove to Frogmore for his last night at the house.</p>
<p class="txt">After the Queen’s jubilee and her funeral, for the third time that year central London was prepared for a royal parade. The majority of Britons welcomed the reaffirmation of the monarchy. Crowned as King, Charles would demand Britons’ allegiance and at the same time offer to serve. The unique religious service arranged by Charles could not conceal new challenges. Some Commonwealth countries were planning to become republics; Britain’s youth and immigrant community were largely against a hereditary monarchy; and many Britons were appalled by the distasteful spectacle of Andrew’s and Harry’s behaviour.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles was criticised by some senior members of the Establishment for failing to resolve conclusively the embarrassments presented by Harry and Andrew. His reticence weakened the Crown’s reputation. By failing to consider properly the consequences of the princes’ actions <span id="page_206"/>for the future of the monarchy, Charles rightly questioned his own and Camilla’s popularity.</p>
<p class="txt">Public opinion mattered. During her short life, Diana showed how the monarchy depended on communal support. The Royal Family’s initially mistaken reaction to her death exposed their vulnerability. Still tainted by his treatment of Diana, Charles could not be certain that the British would genuinely accept Camilla as Queen. For so many years, she had been the ‘Tampax mistress’ who had originally rejected Charles for the man she truly loved, Andrew Parker Bowles. Charles, however, could be reassured that his own popularity had increased, not least because forty years earlier he had, unfashionably, championed the environment. But the bulwark of his reign would be William and Kate. Their popularity guaranteed the succession. In the slimmed-down monarchy, so much depended on them to take on the responsibility as patrons of a thousand charities and organisations.</p>
<p class="txt">The prospect of seeing the new Prince and Princess of Wales in the abbey irritated Harry, as did the plan for his arrival at the abbey with Prince Andrew.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s absence from the coronation puzzled many. Some wondered how a woman who clung to royal titles could refuse to attend Britain’s most important ceremony. ‘The Sussexes felt they were treated appallingly by the Royal Family,’ stated the <em>Daily Telegraph</em> in a sympathetic article amended three times online. After all, Harry had not been told in time about the Queen’s death; he wasn’t allowed to wear a uniform at her funeral and an invitation to a Buckingham Palace reception before the funeral had been withdrawn. Some suggested that Meghan was ‘irate that the King had failed to answer her concerns’ about being racially abused by the Royal Family. Amid all the froth, no one published an alternative perspective of the situation: that Meghan was contemptuous of the Royal Family, both the individuals themselves and their traditions. To many, it reasoned that Meghan wouldn’t give an <span id="page_207"/>audience to people that didn’t respect her, and to others it seemed that she lacked the courage to face the people she had lambasted so publicly in the Netflix series six months earlier. By contrast, Harry seemingly had no qualms about facing those he had repeatedly trashed.</p>
<p class="txt">In the driving rain, Harry arrived at the abbey with Andrew. The disgraced Prince was, at the time, still refusing the King’s order to move to Frogmore from Royal Lodge, the 30-bedroom mansion he occupied with his ex-wife, Sarah. Relations between the uncle and his nephew were not good. In some accounts, Andrew had scathingly dismissed Meghan as an ‘opportunist’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-430" id="en0-430" role="doc-noteref">430</a></sup> More recently, a report had emerged of Andrew’s extraordinary rudeness to Robin Barnett, the deputy ambassador at the British embassy in Warsaw. In front of a group of businessmen, Andrew had spectacularly humiliated Barnett, mocking the diplomat’s club foot as he limped across the room to pass on to the Prince an urgent message from London.</p>
<p class="txt">Wearing an unpressed Dior morning suit and his medals, Harry walked alone up the aisle. Unsmiling, the outsider nodded at a few members of the congregation but noticeably ignored his brother, Kate and their three children sitting in the front row. In turn, they ignored him. Placed in the third row and glaring at William’s back, Harry sat beside Jack Brooksbank, Princess Eugenie’s husband. ‘I’m fed up with the way they treat me,’ Harry told the marketing executive who had left university without a degree to become a bartender. ‘It’s not an ideal situation. They don’t care.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-431" id="en0-431" role="doc-noteref">431</a></sup> Harry’s view of the ceremony was soon blocked by Princess Anne’s large red feather – the plume of the Blues and Royals – on her hat. She asked whether she should remove her hat. She was told ‘no’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-432" id="en0-432" role="doc-noteref">432</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After the Crown of St Edward had been safely placed on Charles’s head, Harry intoned, ‘God Save King Charles. Long Live King Charles. May the King live forever.’ The camera did not focus on Harry as his father’s former mistress was crowned Queen. The heralds shouted <span id="page_208"/>‘<em>Vivat Regina Camilla</em>’. In other circumstances, they would have loudly proclaimed ‘<em>Vivat Regina Diana</em>’.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry could have reflected that the crowning of Camilla, an unpopular divorcee, as Queen had proved Charles’s tenacity. In a previous era that would have been impossible. But Harry’s family were romantics. Just as Harry had sacrificed everything for Meghan, Edward VIII had abdicated the throne for Wallis Simpson. The passing camera shot of Harry caught the face of a sad man.</p>
<p class="txt">To Harry’s visible irritation, after the historic symbols were passed around Charles, William stepped forward to collaborate in the most solemn rituals. Paying homage, William knelt in front of his father, pledged his loyalty – ‘So help me God’ – and then kissed his father on the cheek. Harry saw an unusual bond – an intense relationship – the same one he had sacrificed and now sought to destroy. At that moment, the future of the monarchy appeared to be secure for three generations. The caravan had moved on without him.</p>
<p class="txt">King Charles rose from his throne and headed alone towards the abbey’s exit. After years of controversy, he had fulfilled his destiny. More consciously than others in his family, Charles recognised how other European monarchies had been swept aside because of extravagance, stubbornness or scandal. The greatest threat to the British monarchy, the new King feared, was Harry. Indeed, throughout a thousand years of history, kings and queens had been repeatedly threatened by renegade brothers, sisters or sons.</p>
<p class="txt">As Queen Camilla walked alone towards the abbey’s exit, Harry could not fail to notice her hands reach towards the loose crown, clearly fearful it might topple to the floor. Noticeably, Harry did not bow to the new Queen. Nor did anyone else in the family section.</p>
<p class="txt">Thirty-five minutes after the coronation ended, Harry was back at Heathrow. He had spent a mere twenty-nine hours in Britain. As the King and Queen stood on the Palace’s balcony waving at a vast <span id="page_209"/>enthusiastic crowd, Harry took off on BA’s 3.45pm flight for Los Angeles. As he headed towards the Atlantic, there was a call for silence at the Palace reception. Raising his glass, Charles proposed several toasts, including one to his grandchildren and, on his fourth birthday, to Archie ‘wherever he is’. A guest would later reveal that William had decided that afternoon not to invite Harry to his coronation. They would never be reconciled. Some guests wondered whether Harry would ever attend another formal royal event. At 6.30pm, Harry landed in Los Angeles and completed the ninety-mile journey northwards in two hours. Just in time to wish Archie a happy birthday.</p>
<p class="txt">At the Windsor Castle concert that night, William included in his short speech a rebuke to the Sussexes: ‘Most importantly of all, my father has always understood that people of all faiths, all backgrounds and all communities deserve to be celebrated and supported. Pa, we are all so proud of you.’ There were loud cheers as William proclaimed, ‘God save the King.’</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>