<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 22</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct22" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct22"><span id="page_210"/>CHAPTER 22</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Chase</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Ten days later, on 16th May 2023, Harry and Meghan were back in New York. Both appeared revitalised, not least to challenge the new King.</p>
<p class="txt">A few months after the Sussexes befriended and hosted in Montecito the celebrated feminist Gloria Steinem, the 89-year-old activist’s Ms Foundation for Women had acclaimed Meghan’s leadership with its World of Vision Award. The citation for Meghan’s prize celebrated ‘her global advocacy to empower and advocate on behalf of women and girls’, and she was praised as someone who ‘ignites policy and cultural change’. The award would be presented at a glittering celebration on the foundation’s fiftieth anniversary.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes had every reason to welcome their return to the spotlight. Over the previous weeks, their approval ratings among Americans had fallen to about 25 per cent. While a minority of Americans still regarded the Sussexes as heroes, the majority had become exasperated by their attacks against the Royal Family. Meghan’s popularity had plunged 36 points to minus 33. After the publication of his book, Harry’s popularity had fallen 45 points to minus 22. The slide threatened to continue.</p>
<p class="txt">The sniping generated by <em>South Park’</em>s sarcastic cartoon was continued after the publication of <em>Spare</em> by television host Jimmy Kimmel mocking William’s and Harry’s grudge fight in the kitchen. <span id="page_211"/>More woundingly, the <em>New York Times</em> switched sides. Under the headline ‘Has Prince Harry’s Confessional Tour Run Its Course?’ the newspaper asked whether the Sussexes’ rehash had become repetitive and tiresome.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-433" id="en0-433" role="doc-noteref">433</a></sup> Having exhausted their favourite topic – themselves – ‘What is left for them to talk about?’ After washing their linen in public, the Sussexes were no longer revered royals but merely common celebrities.</p>
<p class="txt">Before flying to New York, in order to eradicate the slurs, Meghan arranged a lunch at a Japanese Michelin-starred restaurant in Montecito. Present were Cameron Diaz and her husband Benji Madden, Gwyneth Paltrow and her husband TV producer Brad Falchuk, and Whitney Wolfe Herd, the co-founder of Tinder and the CEO of the online dating platform Bumble, and her husband the Texan oil heir Michael Herd. Being spotted with Hollywood royalty would enhance her appearance in New York for the relaunch of an empowered woman with opinions.</p>
<p class="txt">In anticipation of the event, Steinem praised Meghan as ‘smart, funny and devoted to social issues’. Returning the compliment, Meghan glorified Steinem as her ‘inspiration’ and ‘mentor’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-434" id="en0-434" role="doc-noteref">434</a></sup> Interestingly, Meghan also denounced her role in 2006 as a hostess on <em>Deal or No Deal,</em> a TV show offering contestants the chance of winning $1 million. Over thirty-four episodes, dressed in a tight miniskirt and a stuffed bra, Meghan regularly earned a healthy income. ‘It objectified me,’ she complained, ‘as a showgirl.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-435" id="en0-435" role="doc-noteref">435</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Rather than opt for a hotel in New York, the Sussexes arranged to stay overnight at a private house in Upper East Manhattan owned by the cosmetics manufacturer Victoria Jackson.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-436" id="en0-436" role="doc-noteref">436</a></sup> The ceremony would be held at the Ziegfeld Ballroom on the other side of Central Park. Three SUVs and a bevy of bodyguards employed by TorchStone, a global security company, had been booked for the journey. TorchStone provided not only bodyguards but also checked <span id="page_212"/>on journalists researching the Sussexes. That weekend, Caroline Graham of the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> was a particular irritant. She reported that Dior was considering appointing Meghan as a brand ambassador.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-437" id="en0-437" role="doc-noteref">437</a></sup> As Meghan dressed for the Steinem event in a strapless gold Johanna Ortiz outfit and five-inch Tom Ford heels, Dior emphatically denied any relationship with Meghan. Pertinently, Queen Camilla had worn a Dior dress at that day’s Ascot races in England.</p>
<p class="txt">On that same Tuesday, Harry’s lawyers in London were in court once again to argue against the Home Office’s refusal to provide armed protection for the Sussexes. Harry’s lawyer, Shaheed Fatima, told the judge how Harry’s safety had been ‘compromised’ in July 2021 after he left a charity function in Kew without police protection. She said that the paparazzi chased the Sussexes’ vehicle and argued that it proved the Sussexes’ need for armed police protection. Meghan would be murdered, Harry feared, after what he had ‘experienced over the last six years . . . at the hands of the tabloids’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-438" id="en0-438" role="doc-noteref">438</a></sup> Not mentioned was Harry’s claim that he was a target of al-Qaeda. The hearing would continue the following day.</p>
<p class="txt">That evening in New York, photographers had gathered outside the Ziegfeld Ballroom. A good snap of Meghan, they knew, was worth a few hundred dollars. None had expected Harry that night. Once he was spotted, the photographers’ interest soared. A <em>joint</em> photograph was worth thousands of dollars. But to their irritation, the Sussexes darted from the SUV into a Hertz shop to enter the building through a back entrance, instead of posing as usual. The disappointed photographers agreed that the Sussexes had contrived to control the narrative – no photographs except on their terms.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-439" id="en0-439" role="doc-noteref">439</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s power to attract publicity was critical to the charity. The ambition to raise $100 million over the following year depended on Meghan and Harry inspiring generosity from the one thousand high rollers in the ballroom.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ entrance was warmly applauded. New Yorkers were <span id="page_213"/>genuinely curious to see one of the world’s most famous couples. Surrounded by champions of virtue signalling, the couple greeted the famous and smiled at the unknowns. Both were professional performers. Told to keep it brief, Meghan’s six-minute speech struck all the right notes. Highlighting her lifelong feminist activism, she raved about the impact in her youth of her mom buying <em>Ms</em>, Gloria Steinem’s magazine.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-440" id="en0-440" role="doc-noteref">440</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘I also knew that to my mom – to my dear mom who I’m honoured to have here with me tonight – I knew that the significance of these magazines was important,’ she said, adding a good joke: ‘I mean, it wasn’t a one-off. She had a subscription!’ Meghan praised <em>Ms</em>’s diversity and how female politicians and astronauts were heroes: ‘<em>Ms</em> was formative in that cocooning. It piqued my curiosity and it became the chrysalis for the woman that I would become and that I am today.’</p>
<p class="txt">A few in the audience were sceptical but everyone applauded her final sentiment: ‘My greater value and purpose in life was to advocate for those who felt unheard, to stand up to injustice, and to be not afraid of saying what you know is true, and what is just, and what is right.’ The organisers were thrilled. They expected huge contributions over the following days. Instead, the night raised less than $1.5 million. One reason was the events that followed.</p>
<p class="txt">Aware of the court hearings in London, the Sussexes left the ballroom determined not only that their destination should remain unknown but also, on Harry’s orders, that they would not be photographed. Acting on Harry’s plan, as they emerged, bodyguards obscured their faces. ‘Security were being arseholes from the start,’ complained a photographer. ‘We’d waited for more than four hours and none of us could get shots.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-441" id="en0-441" role="doc-noteref">441</a></sup> But it was worse. ‘They were mocking the paps, provoking them. Those security [guys] egged on the paps.’ A few photographers were more than furious.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-442" id="en0-442" role="doc-noteref">442</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As the Sussexes’ convoy moved off, about six cars and motorbikes with paparazzi followed. In Harry’s version, he was chased for two <span id="page_214"/>hours by ‘about a dozen cars, bikes and scooters’. Ashley Hansen, his spokeswoman, called it ‘a near catastrophic car chase at the hands of a ring of highly aggressive paparazzi who mounted pavements, jumped lights and reversed down one-way streets resulting in multiple near collisions involving other drivers on the road, pedestrians and two NYPD officers’. Hansen’s version was embellished by a member of Harry’s security, Chris Sanchez, who claimed, ‘It could have been fatal.’ The Sussexes, summarised Hansen, were left ‘incredibly scared and shaken up’. Adding to the drama, Omid Scobie authoritatively reported that the Sussexes’ car had been driven at 80mph ‘to lose’ the pursuing photographers.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-443" id="en0-443" role="doc-noteref">443</a></sup> Harry offered his conclusion: ‘You want to talk about history repeating itself. They’re not going to stop until [Meghan] dies.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-444" id="en0-444" role="doc-noteref">444</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The news dominated Britain’s morning headlines. Ashley Hansen ensured that everyone, including the High Court judge who at that very moment was hearing Harry’s case for armed protection, should know that his life had once again been endangered because he was unprotected.</p>
<p class="txt">Yet soon after daybreak in New York, Harry’s version of the chase was dismissed by the New York Police Department (NYPD) and New York’s mayor, Eric Adams. The scenes, they agreed, were ‘challenging’, but it was ‘hard to believe’ there had been a two-hour chase in the congested city. ‘It was a bit chaotic,’ said the police spokesman, ‘but there were no collisions, injuries or threats.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-445" id="en0-445" role="doc-noteref">445</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Photos of Meghan distributed by the celebrity news agency BackGrid showed her smiling from her SUV. According to BackGrid, Harry’s SUV was ‘reckless, zigzagging, coming close to other cars and blocking off streets. They pulled out into the oncoming lane and caused chaos.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-446" id="en0-446" role="doc-noteref">446</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After driving for about forty-five minutes, the Sussexes had headed to the 19th Precinct police station on 67th Street between Third Avenue and Lexington. According to Ashley Hansen, the Sussexes <span id="page_215"/>went into the station, discussed their plight and then emerged to hail a cab.</p>
<p class="txt">Mike Lombardi, the precinct’s police chief, was puzzled by Hansen’s claim. The Sussexes, he knew, never entered the police station. Nor did the Sussexes make a complaint or a request. And the police never went near Harry’s SUV. Police cars leaving the station for emergencies didn’t see Harry. The precinct chief declared that, ‘Harry and Meghan got carried away, the paparazzi got carried away, the media got carried away.’ All a single policeman posted outside the precinct station saw was the Sussexes getting into a yellow cab, only for it to be stuck stationary in the street. More confusion followed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-447" id="en0-447" role="doc-noteref">447</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The cab driver, Sukhcharn Singh, recalled two cars following him. ‘I don’t think I would call it a chase,’ he recalled. ‘I never felt like I was in danger. They kept their distance.’ A garbage truck blocked his getaway cab. No photographer approached the stationary vehicle. After just ten minutes, Singh was back at the police station. He was paid $17 for the fare, plus a $50 tip. The Sussexes got back into the SUV and headed uptown alone to Jackson’s brownstone on the Upper East Side. Based on a briefing from Harry’s team, the <em>New York Time</em>s misreported even that short journey: ‘The couple got home by police convoy without having their location discovered.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-448" id="en0-448" role="doc-noteref">448</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Challenged that her version of a ‘near fatal, catastrophic car chase’ was clearly inaccurate, Hansen replied, ‘It would be abhorrent to suggest it was a PR stunt.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-449" id="en0-449" role="doc-noteref">449</a></sup> Few were convinced. Harry’s protests frequently appeared to be exaggerated. Melodrama reflected his expectation of being believed without question.</p>
<p class="txt">With an eye to the live court proceedings in London, Harry demanded that the BackGrid photo agency surrender their photos. Clearly he had forgotten the ridicule he incited in 2021 after he condemned the First Amendment of the US Constitution, guaranteeing the freedom of the media. BackGrid’s lawyer repeated the mockery. England’s royal <span id="page_216"/>prerogative, Harry was told, had been rejected by America more than two hundred years earlier.</p>
<p class="txt">Undeterred, Harry demanded an investigation into whether the police should have done more. The NYPD demurred. Harry called the Manhattan district attorney (DA). Impatiently, he demanded that the photographers be prosecuted. After interviewing two photographers and consulting the police officers at the 19th Precinct, the Manhattan DA decided that although the incident was ‘unfortunate’ and the journey was ‘stressful for the passengers’, the photographers were ‘unpleasant but not criminal’. Prince Harry and those speaking on his behalf were incorrect to say the ‘chase’ was ‘near catastrophic’, said the DA. It was ‘not a near-death experience’.</p>
<p class="txt">Under pressure from Harry, John Hart, the NYPD’s chief of intelligence, wrote on 18th September 2023 to Chief Superintendent Richard Smith of the Royal Family’s protection unit. Yet Hart’s letter could not have been what Harry expected. Hart confirmed that while the photographers’ conduct had been ‘reckless’ and ‘persistently dangerous’, the incident did not amount to an indictable offence. Nevertheless, Hart added, the NYPD ‘will be enhancing the security resources’ for the Sussexes, starting with a planned visit in October.</p>
<p class="txt">In London, the judge would decide that just because photographers were unpleasantly close did not mean that they had a hostile intention to kill Harry and Meghan. Once again Harry’s truthfulness was doubted.</p>
<p class="txt">The car chase wiped the awards ceremony off the news agenda. Instead of applause for the couple, there were sniggers and accusations. A-listers realised that having the Sussexes on their guest list posed a threat. Meghan’s publicists might leak details, distracting from the host, and possibly she would cause a scandal.</p>
<p class="txt">By now, it was clear that one of Meghan’s skills was to recognise bad news and seek to repair the damage. Philanthropy and ‘service’ was her solution. On 24th May, one week after the car chase, a tragic school <span id="page_217"/>shooting killed nineteen students and two teachers in Uvalde, Texas. Twenty-four hours after the news broke, Meghan flew 1,400 miles with a photographer to lay flowers at a shrine. Later, she allowed her accompanying publicist Mandana Dayani to describe how she had sat in a room consoling the grieving families.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-450" id="en0-450" role="doc-noteref">450</a></sup> At precisely the same time, 200 miles from Montecito, Thomas Markle had suffered a life-threatening stroke, yet Meghan did not visit or reach out to her father.</p>
<p class="txt">That day displayed an irony about the Sussexes’ world. Both claimed to have fled from Britain partly out of fear (unjustified in truth) that they and Archie would be denied police protection from assassination. Harry was making a huge effort to prove that he was vulnerable to potential murderers in London and needed British taxpayers to fund his protection. In America, both claimed they were safe. Yet the massacre in Uvalde, by no means a rare tragedy, exposed the real dangers of a country flooded by guns used frequently in random shootings.</p>
<p class="txt">On the day Meghan flew to Uvalde, Harry lost his claim in London to pay for his armed police protection. The government’s legal costs were £492,000. Generously, the judge ordered Harry to repay just £10,000. His second claim against the Home Office for free protection continued.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-451" id="en0-451" role="doc-noteref">451</a></sup> More importantly, he was gearing up for his day in court against the hated tabloids. The first target was the Mirror Group.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>