<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 23</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct23" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct23"><span id="page_218"/>CHAPTER 23</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Cross-Examination</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Harry did not apologise after arriving a day late in the London court-room, even after Judge Timothy Fancourt’s reprimand. Nothing, he said, could have prevented him celebrating Lilibet’s second birthday in Montecito.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-452" id="en0-452" role="doc-noteref">452</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Shortly after the hearing started on 6th June 2023, the first member of the Royal Family since Edward VII in 1891 stood in the witness box to testify against Mirror Group Newspapers (MGN). Four years after Harry and his lawyers had first accused the newspaper group of unlawful information gathering, Court 15 saw the result of thousands of hours of work costing millions of pounds. Dozens of boxes surrounded the barristers as David Sherborne stepped into the spotlight. The <em>Mirror</em> had not offered to pay enough compensation to stop the trial.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Call me Prince Harry,’ announced the 38-year-old. The judge ruled that Harry should be addressed as ‘Sir’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-453" id="en0-453" role="doc-noteref">453</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Morland’s cartoon in <em>The Times</em> showed Harry placing his hand on a copy of <em>Spare</em> for the oath: ‘I swear to tell my truth, my whole truth and nothing but my truth.’ The Prince had good reason to be confident. MGN had already paid £105 million in compensation and costs to about six hundred claimants for hiring private investigators to hack into their voicemails or unlawfully obtain personal information. <em>Mirror</em> journalists <span id="page_219"/>had used the harvest of private messages as the source of front-page scoops, exposing embarrassing relationships among the rich and famous.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry claimed that the <em>Mirror</em> had spent £10.7 million commissioning 114 illegal investigations into his activities and relationships by hacking the mobile telephones of him, his friends and staff. Allegedly, 135 separate payments were made to private investigators searching Harry’s phone and 154 payments for hacking his friends, including Guy Pelly and Mark Dyer, described as Harry’s ‘second dad’, and his former nanny, Tiggy Legge-Bourke. ‘Utterly vile,’ Harry defined the <em>Mirror</em>’s journalists.</p>
<p class="txt">Discovering the <em>Mirror</em>’s illegality was time-consuming. His lawyers had looked for embarrassing stories about Harry in the Mirror Group’s newspapers, then searched for the journalists’ sources. First, they scoured the telephone records of the private investigators looking for calls to the mobile phones of Harry’s friends. Then they unearthed the <em>Mirror</em>’s payments to those private investigators who had hacked into voicemails. The lawyers did not know how much incriminating evidence had been destroyed, but the surviving records showed that Harry’s friends had been targeted.</p>
<p class="txt">‘A flood of illegality over a period of twenty years,’ Sherborne called it. He blamed Piers Morgan, the <em>Mirror</em>’s editor from 1995 until he was fired in 2004. Morgan, said Sherborne, ‘lies right at the heart of this in a number of ways’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-454" id="en0-454" role="doc-noteref">454</a></sup> Morgan vigorously denied ever approving any hacking. Only one of the <em>Mirror</em> stories cited by Harry – published in 2002 about Harry and drugs – appeared during Morgan’s tenure and he denied knowing about its source. He would be contradicted during the trial by Omid Scobie. Judge Fancourt accepted that Morgan had openly discussed phone hacking in front of Scobie. In the week after Omid Scobie was shown to be a liar about naming two Royal Family ‘racists’ in the first draft of his book <em>Endgame</em> (to be published later that year), the judge called Scobie a ‘straightforward <span id="page_220"/>and reliable witness’. Morgan, who would not be called as a witness, labelled Scobie a ‘deluded fantasist’. Although Harry relied on Scobie’s evidence, he was contemptuous when asked about their relationship.‘I know of him,’ he said.</p>
<p class="txt">In his 55-page witness statement for the trial, Harry portrayed himself as an isolated and damaged target exploited by the media. ‘I have experienced hostility from the press since I was born,’ he said. Harry was particularly outraged that, when he was a young man, gangs of paparazzi had waited outside nightclubs swinging intimidating cameras: ‘It was like being swarmed by a rabid mob. Their arms stretched out pushing a button, taking hundreds of photographs all at once with the flash in your face. I couldn’t even see where I was going. As I reached the car, I could hear taunting. I was being egged on for a reaction, knowing I’d been out and had a few drinks.’ In his opinion, the tabloids coaxed a ‘damaged’ young man to excesses: ‘They took great pleasure in knocking me down, time and time again,’ he complained. Especially in their efforts to destroy his relationship with his girlfriend Chelsy Davy.</p>
<p class="txt">Blonde and vivacious, Davy had grown up on a game reserve near Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe. After meeting Harry as a teenager at the Berkshire Polo Club, their relationship was forged in Cape Town in 2005. They split up in 2011. He was twenty-seven and she was twenty-six. Harry blamed the tabloids’ hacking for ruining their relationship. Based on the voicemail messages on Davy’s phone, tabloid journalists had written juicy accounts of their stormy relationship.Harry said that at the time he did not realise the phones were being hacked. He assumed that friends and employees were betraying him to <em>Mirror</em> journalists. Not only were the newspaper reports ‘incredibly upsetting’, said Harry, but they also caused him ‘huge bouts of depression and paranoia’ because ‘he could not trust anybody’.</p>
<p class="txt">Based on his lawyers’ research, Harry listed incidents where he believed that the <em>Mirror</em> journalists could only have possessed the <span id="page_221"/>detailed information about his relationship with Davy by hacking. The stories included: confidential details of Davy’s arrivals at Heathrow; a secret holiday in Bazaruto, a small island off Mozambique, where <em>Mirror</em> journalists and photographers had ‘booked into the hotel before we got there’; a surprise meeting with Davy arranged by his friend Mark Dyer at the El Remanso ranch in Lobos, Argentina, which was a secret even for Harry but not for the <em>Mirror</em> journalists; two stories headlined ‘Harry’s Girl to Dump Him’ and ‘Chelsy Is Not Happy’, reporting that ‘furious’ Davy had given Harry a ‘tongue-lashing down the phone’ after accusing him of flirting with a brunette at the party; and that Chelsy had made twelve phone calls in an hour and ‘begged [Harry] not to be a hero’ by going to Iraq; and then in an ‘emotional phone call’, Davy had asked for a trial separation.</p>
<p class="txt">After a private investigator had made six calls on a single day to Davy’s telephones to hear Harry’s voicemails, <em>Mirror</em> journalists reported that Harry had ‘bombarded her with texts and phone calls apologising for the antics that caused the split’ and had ‘repeatedly begged her’ to take him back.</p>
<p class="txt">The climax was the <em>Sunday Mirror</em>’s revelation on 25th January 2009 that Davy was ending the relationship.Under the headline, ‘HE just loves boozing &amp; army SHE is fed up &amp; is heading home’, the <em>Mirror</em> reported that Davy had ‘dumped’ the Prince because he loved the Army more than her. The final blast was published on 26th April 2009. Under the headline ‘Chelsy New Fella’, Harry was reportedly ‘bombarding’ Davy with calls asking her to take him back after she told him the truth – she had a new man.</p>
<p class="txt">Equally ‘shocking and so blatant’ for Harry were the <em>Mirror</em>’s reports allegedly based on private telephone conversations with his father. One article described Harry’s insistence to Charles that he wanted to join the Army rather than go to university. And following another hacked conversation, the <em>Mirror</em> revealed the details of a disagreement between <span id="page_222"/>Charles and Harry about his relationship with Davy. According to the article, Harry had ‘exploded’ after his father mocked their ‘puppy love’. Harry, the <em>Mirror</em> accurately reported, had rebuked his father that he had no right to give lectures on morals and then ‘slammed the phone down’. Shocked by the outburst, Charles had banned Harry from seeing Davy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-455" id="en0-455" role="doc-noteref">455</a></sup> In Harry’s version, ‘Our lives were entertainment for them. It felt as though the tabloid press thought that they owned me absolutely.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-456" id="en0-456" role="doc-noteref">456</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In their search, Harry’s lawyers found eight private investigator payments for hacking Diana’s phone messages.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-457" id="en0-457" role="doc-noteref">457</a></sup> ‘The thought of Piers Morgan and his band of journalists,’ said Harry, ‘earwigging into my mother’s private and sensitive messages three months prior to her death makes me feel physically sick and even more determined to hold those responsible, including Mr Morgan, accountable for their vile and entirely unjustified behaviour.’</p>
<p class="txt">Two years after Morgan left the <em>Mirror</em>, Buckingham Palace read a <em>News of the World</em> story headlined ‘Chelsy Tears Strip Off Harry!’ Two journalists, Clive Goodman and Neville Thurlbeck, described Davy’s fury about Harry’s night at ‘gentlemen’s club’ Spearmint Rhino involving ‘lap dance antics’. The Palace realised that someone’s phone had been hacked. The journalists were arrested in 2006, convicted and jailed. Pertinently, <em>Mirror</em> journalists continued to rely on hacking telephones.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It does make you feel completely helpless and hopeless,’ Harry lamented. The <em>Mirror</em>’s lawyers and directors, Harry claimed, ‘covered up the truth, turning a blind eye to ensure that it would continue unabated’. Even the police and the government, he suspected, were ‘too scared to seek justice against them. All ganging up to protect each other, they truly believe they are above the law.’</p>
<p class="txt">Expecting to be treated with deference, Harry was not prepared for cross-examination. He never expected his ‘truth’ to be challenged. Representing the <em>Mirror</em>, Andrew Green showed that with one exception, there was ‘no evidence whatsoever’ that the newspapers’ reports about <span id="page_223"/>Harry were based on hacking his own phone. Meticulously, Green set out to humiliate the Prince by showing that the <em>Mirror</em> stories were all legally sourced. <em>Mirror</em> journalists had copied stories published earlier in a rival newspaper, cited a BBC report, quoted Harry’s press spokesman or a Buckingham Palace statement, repeated Harry’s own interviews, secured an interview with Mark Dyer or relied on normal journalism – namely, speaking to a bar owner or an eyewitness.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-458" id="en0-458" role="doc-noteref">458</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry admitted that a <em>Mirror</em> description of his twelfth birthday could not have been produced by hacking because he did not own a mobile until the following year. He appeared surprised when informed that newspapers routinely republished stories appearing in a rival newspaper. ‘I see the similarities,’ he conceded but never admitted a mistake. When told that Chelsy Davy’s uncle Paul Davy spoke frequently to the press, he was silenced. With each confrontation exposing the fallacy of his claim, Harry replied, ‘I didn’t know,’ ‘I wasn’t aware’ or ‘I honestly can’t remember.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘Ask the journalists,’ he replied, when he was stumped about contradictions between his court claim and his version in <em>Spare</em>. ‘Which line in this article do you think comes from hacking a phone?’ Green asked. ‘I can’t be sure,’ Harry replied. ‘You would have to ask the journalists themselves.’ Or, when unable to concentrate, the champion of ‘my truth’ waffled, ‘It’s a question for my legal team.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-459" id="en0-459" role="doc-noteref">459</a></sup> Flummoxed, Harry insisted: ‘Every single one of these articles played a destructive role in my growing up.’ And then he admitted that he had not read the newspapers at the time. Nor had he read most of the articles before they were shown to him in court. His claim that they caused him ‘distress’ appeared suspect.</p>
<p class="txt">At the end of five hours’ cross-examination on the first day, the Prince looked unhappy. ‘His accusations were vapid, unsubstantiated and some simply ridiculous,’ sniped the <em>Sun</em>.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-460" id="en0-460" role="doc-noteref">460</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Although ordered by the judge not to discuss the case overnight – <span id="page_224"/>Harry replied that he would only be FaceTiming with his family – he appeared refreshed the following morning. His replies were markedly different and monosyllabic: ‘Yes’, ‘No’, or ‘The evidence [of hacking] has been destroyed.’</p>
<p class="txt">Harry struggled to understand ‘the public interest’. Was a newspaper report that he had received preferential treatment to get into Sandhurst of legitimate public interest? Green asked. ‘No,’ replied Harry. ‘I don’t believe that it affects the wellbeing of society.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-461" id="en0-461" role="doc-noteref">461</a></sup> That exchange encapsulated Harry’s mindset. Only favourable media reports about him were justified. Anything critical – even if truthful – was malicious and should be suppressed.</p>
<p class="txt">The climax of the second day was the <em>Mirror</em> headline ‘Hooray Harry Is Dumped’. The newspaper had reported that Chelsy had ended their relationship.It was, said Harry, particularly ‘hurtful that such a private moment was turned into a bit of a laugh. They were celebrating that I had broken up with my girlfriend.’ Green was incredulous. Did Harry think that the newspaper was celebrating that he was dumped? ‘Yes, I am. I’m the victim of this.’</p>
<p class="txt">Did Harry not realise, asked Green, that ‘Hooray’ referred to his class? For ‘Hooray’ to summarise a celebration would have required a comma after the word. Harry was stumped. Eton had not apparently taught him basic grammar. He admitted he had never heard that the term ‘Hooray Henry’ referred to a toff.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-462" id="en0-462" role="doc-noteref">462</a></sup> ‘My mind’s gone blank for a moment,’ he replied with embarrassment.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Your case’, Green told Harry, ‘is based on total speculation without any evidential basis whatsoever.’ Harry blinked. It’s likely that no one had ever spoken to him in public like that before. Scotland Yard’s investigation, continued Green, had found no evidence that Harry’s phone had been hacked: ‘Zilch, zero, nada.’ Even the convicted phone hackers giving evidence for the <em>Mirror</em> – Graham Johnson and Dan Evans – did not testify that Harry’s phone was hacked. At the end of his <span id="page_225"/>second day in court, Harry admitted that there was no direct evidence his mobile had been hacked. But it would be an ‘injustice’ if he did not win the case.</p>
<p class="txt">The common headline in the following day’s newspapers was ‘Total Speculation’. Those headlines, Harry admitted to Sherborne, were ‘even more destructive’. He added, ‘For my whole life, the press has misled me and covered up the wrongdoing.’ Sherborne would turn to the gallery and pronounce that the case was Harry’s campaign to reform the press.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-463" id="en0-463" role="doc-noteref">463</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Readers of newspaper accounts of Harry’s cross-examination would have believed that his chance of success was remote. But Sherborne understood the Prince’s advantages. The High Court had decided in 2015 that hacking was rampant in <em>Mirror</em> newspapers and no British judge had ever rejected a civil claim from a member of the Royal Family. Meghan’s successful case against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> proved that England’s judges were prejudiced against the media, even though the Duchess had signed an inaccurate statement.</p>
<p class="txt">As Fancourt considered the evidence that the phones of Harry’s friends had been hacked – his judgement took six months to write and would be issued on 1st December – there was little doubt that the <em>Mirror</em> would lose.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s anticipated victory against the media was precisely the publicity Meghan appeared determined to avoid. She needed to move away from controversy.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>