<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 24</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct24" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct24"><span id="page_226"/>CHAPTER 24</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Blow-Up</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt"><em>Rolling Stone</em>’s headline ‘Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are in Their Flop Era’ reflected the mood. A Hollywood sage pronounced that Harry had been transformed from ‘too much soldier, not enough prince’ into an overprivileged snowflake.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-464" id="en0-464" role="doc-noteref">464</a></sup> Harry’s publicists were forced to deny that occasionally he slept in San Vicente Bungalows in Los Angeles or at a hotel in Montecito.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-465" id="en0-465" role="doc-noteref">465</a></sup> His solo act – performing as a royal – was perfect, but an eyewitness noticed that behind the scenes he was flummoxed by any criticism: ‘He was puzzled, and he became worried.’ Not least about Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-466" id="en0-466" role="doc-noteref">466</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan understood some harsh realities. Going through the options, she recognised that casting the Sussexes as a global humanitarian power couple was beyond their financial means. The commitment to ‘service’ and charities suited Harry. Invictus and Sentebale, he acknowledged, had become ‘a bit of a lifeline for me’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-467" id="en0-467" role="doc-noteref">467</a></sup> But Meghan dreamed of becoming an entrepreneurial influencer like Gwyneth Paltrow or an icon like Michelle Obama and Oprah Winfrey. She recalled Oprah Winfrey’s advice: ‘It was so clear . . . the essence of who you are was about feeling seen, knowing that you’re enough, knowing that you’re beautiful, despite what anybody would say, and putting that essence in a product that could be shared with millions of people.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-468" id="en0-468" role="doc-noteref">468</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_227"/>Her marriage to Harry naturally fuelled her ambitions. After breaking free from the Palace, she wanted to earn money from commercial endorsements – food, wellness, fashion – just like the famous American lifestyle expert Martha Stewart. To rake in millions of dollars, she thought about launching herself on Instagram, imitating the Kardashians’ lucrative promotions. Meghan urged Ari Emanuel, her William Morris agent, to mastermind her rebirth as an independent celebrity separate from Harry’s battles in Britain, implying to her advisors that fame alone entitled her to success.</p>
<p class="txt">Thanks to her agents, Netflix had finally agreed to commission her own lifestyle series to sell her products. Yet the debate about ‘Meghan-aissance’ boomeranged as her advisors tried to answer the question: What was Meghan’s ideal image? Beyond the label, what was her message? ‘I was still in such an incubation stage,’ she would say. ‘Not even of a brand, but just an “ideation” of what it could be.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-469" id="en0-469" role="doc-noteref">469</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">All those calculations were manageable until the newspaper headlines splashed in mid-June, disclosing that Spotify had ‘ditched’ the Sussexes. Anonymous Spotify sources accused the Sussexes of failing to meet ‘productivity requirements’ by delivering just one <em>Archetypes</em> series in two and a half years.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-470" id="en0-470" role="doc-noteref">470</a></sup> Crushing headlines described ‘The air going out of their balloon’, ‘A bad day for their brand’, ‘Their star is really falling’ and ‘Spotify pulled the plug’. Joining the gunfire, Jeremy Zimmer, the chief executive of United Talent Agency, was blunt: ‘Turns out Meghan Markle was not a great audio talent, or necessarily any kind of talent.’ One commentator twisted the knife: ‘Just because you’re famous doesn’t make you great at something.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-471" id="en0-471" role="doc-noteref">471</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan did not need Zimmer’s condemnation to tell her she had so far failed Hollywood’s test. To stay on top she needed to offer a stream of original new material. Harry had not helped their cause by criticising Spotify for broadcasting Joe Rogan’s anti-vax conspiracies during Covid. ‘False information,’ Harry had called it.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-472" id="en0-472" role="doc-noteref">472</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_228"/>The Sussexes’ publicists tried to gloss over the humiliation. Reed Hastings, co-founder of Netflix, agreed to praise the Sussexes as ‘smart’ with ‘a great eye for a story’ which generates ‘epic entertainment’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-473" id="en0-473" role="doc-noteref">473</a></sup> Hastings had forgotten Netflix’s cancellation in April 2022 of Meghan’s proposal for <em>Pearl</em>, the ‘heroic adventures’ of a twelve-year-old girl.</p>
<p class="txt">To repair the damage, Netflix’s publicists arranged for the Sussexes’ original series about the Royal Family to be nominated for the Hollywood Critics Association’s Best Streaming Non-Fiction Series award. Even Netflix could not twist enough arms to get a nomination for an Emmy. Netflix also agreed to accelerate the announcement of Archewell buying the film rights of the bestseller <em>Meet Me at the Lake</em> by the Canadian writer Carley Fortune. The Sussexes were tasked to produce the script. Although Meghan had no experience producing films, Netflix agreed to publicise a fanciful ‘$3 million deal’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-474" id="en0-474" role="doc-noteref">474</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">But even the Sussexes’ publicity machine could not suffocate the disastrous judgement streamed by Bill Simmons. The 53-year-old who had sold his podcast company to Spotify for $200 million was merciless. ‘I wish I had been involved in the “Meghan and Harry leave Spotify” negotiations,’ said Simmons. He continued, ‘The fucking grifters. That’s the podcast we should have launched with them.’ (‘Grifter’ meaning con artist or petty swindler.)<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-475" id="en0-475" role="doc-noteref">475</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On his own podcast, Simmons explained, ‘I gotta get drunk one night and tell the story of the Zoom I had with Harry to try and help him with a podcast idea. It’s one of my best stories. He just whines and gives interviews.’ Then Simmons went on: ‘Shoot this guy to the sun. I’m so tired of this guy. Who cares about your life? You weren’t even the favourite son. You live in fucking Montecito and you just sell documentaries and podcasts and nobody cares what you have to say about anything unless you talk about the Royal Family – and you just complain about them.’ As a throwaway afterthought, Simmons added that it was ‘embarrassing’ to be affiliated with Harry.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_229"/>Outsiders were not allowed to witness the aftermath of Simmons’ damning words. The tension inside the Montecito mansion was, said an insider, ‘hysterical’. Harry ‘fell to pieces’, according to one eyewitness. Meghan was distraught but eventually she could process the rejection. ‘What do you do when despite giving it your all, it still doesn’t work out?’ she asked herself in a podcast. ‘When you still get a no, a crushing no? It’s a lot to process. It makes you question whether chasing your dream is even what you’re meant to do. But here’s the thing, this is precisely the moment that you have to dig deep.You have to use every tool you’ve got and get right back up.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-476" id="en0-476" role="doc-noteref">476</a></sup> Survival was precisely the lesson she had learned from her father, Thomas Markle.</p>
<p class="txt">The termination of the estimated $20 million Spotify contract embarrassed the Sussexes but the serious income continued to flow from Netflix, which was committed to five series over five years. Harry’s <em>Heart of Invictus</em> series was praised for illustrating Harry’s passion and men’s indomitable courage and there was some hope for his future series on polo. Although the audiences would be small, the Sussexes were certain to receive their advance, now authoritatively estimated at $100 million (£81 million).</p>
<p class="txt">‘There are plenty of offers on the table,’ Ari Emanuel announced, reflecting optimism rather than reality after Spotify’s announcement. ‘The offers have been pouring in, including from other podcast platforms. This is about building a global brand.’ To give his confidence credibility, Emanuel added, ‘Some big deals will be announced soon.’ The old rumour that Meghan was likely to become the face of Dior was recirculated. Unspoken was the absence of a vital ingredient to turn her celebrity into status. Namely, originality. Meghan was a woman of instinct rather than intellect and imagination.</p>
<p class="txt">As before, the Sussexes reshuffled their employees. Harrison Colcord, the head of sales at the local San Ysidro Ranch, was made chief of the Sussexes’ private office.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-477" id="en0-477" role="doc-noteref">477</a></sup> But Colcord could not stop the bad publicity, <span id="page_230"/>even for their rare joint appearances on anniversaries. Every outing sparked carping. There was nevertheless some hope that Meghan’s celebration of her forty-second birthday on 4th August would change the narrative.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s publicists let it be known that the Sussexes would be eating at Tre Lune, an Italian restaurant in Montecito, with her friend Heather Dorak and her husband Matt Cohen. The silence of others that day reflected the Sussexes’ quandary. For the first time, the Royal Family sent no congratulations. Everyone noticed there was also silence from the Clooneys, the Obamas and other A-list celebrities.</p>
<p class="txt">Fuelling speculation about their relationship, Harry was visibly glum at a Beyoncé event in Los Angeles. Wearing an anxiety patch on her wrist, Meghan separately partied with her friend Genevieve Hillis, singer Kelly Rowland and actresses Abigail Spencer and Kerry Washington.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-478" id="en0-478" role="doc-noteref">478</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">It seemed to many observers that Meghan felt safer among women. She could count on loyal Californian friends, including singer Katy Perry and a ‘wellness group’ specialising in cosmetic products, including entrepreneur Victoria Jackson, Kadi Lee, Myka Harris and the hairstylist Amanda Leone.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-479" id="en0-479" role="doc-noteref">479</a></sup> With women she posed as an equal, reflecting their success as her own. Perhaps she assumed that famous men would not treat her as an equal.</p>
<p class="txt">Although she was on the guest list, Meghan stayed away rather than meet the Beckhams in Los Angeles when Harry watched an Inter Miami football match alongside actor Leonardo DiCaprio and basketball legend Magic Johnson. Normally, Meghan would have shone in that environment, but managing their reputational crisis must have felt beyond even her and Harry’s abilities. Four days after Meghan’s birthday, Harry fled to safety.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>