<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 25</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct25" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct25"><span id="page_231"/>CHAPTER 25</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Out of Africa</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Thousands of miles away from his problems, Harry smiled on arriving in Japan with Ignacio ‘Nacho’ Figueras, a suave 46-year-old Argentinian polo player married to an equally attractive Argentinian socialite, Delfina Blaquier. Nacho, the face of Ralph Lauren, undoubtedly benefited from his relationship with Harry. Both played for California’s Los Padres polo team. Alongside Nacho, Harry felt on home turf.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s trip was financed by the International Sports Promotion Society (ISPS) founded by Haruhisa Handa, a Japanese billionaire. Over the previous ten years, ISPS had raised £10 million for Sentebale, Harry’s charity in Lesotho and Botswana, and was committed to donate a further £1.5 million over three years by sponsoring an annual polo match in America and Singapore. Since the charity’s annual turnover was about £3.5 million, Handa’s donation was important.</p>
<p class="txt">To fulfil the sponsorship deal, Harry had agreed to participate in a panel discussion in Tokyo about the combined value of sport, community and philanthropy before heading to a polo match in Singapore. ‘My life is charity – always has been, always will be,’ Harry told the audience.</p>
<p class="ftxt">‘I could happily live here,’ Harry told his hosts.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-480" id="en0-480" role="doc-noteref">480</a></sup> Possibly Harry was being truthful. Japan would be an ideal haven from his overwhelming <span id="page_232"/>problems. But by the end of the panel session, Harry had become unhappy. His trip, he discovered, had been mismanaged and Sentebale was facing a crisis.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry had first visited Lesotho in 2004 at the age of nineteen during his gap year between leaving Eton and entering Sandhurst. Two years later, he and Prince Seeiso of Lesotho co-founded the charity in honour of their mothers to help the one in four adults who were HIV positive in the nation, the world’s second highest rate of infection. Most sufferers were also victims of extreme poverty. Sentebale – which means forget-me-not in Sesotho – had survived early difficulties. In 2008, it emerged that just £84,000 of the £1.15 million raised through events, including a concert in memory of Diana and a TV documentary featuring Harry, had been spent on helping AIDS orphans. The charity’s first director had been paid £100,000 a year, plus the perks of a four-bedroom villa with staff and a private education for his three children. Thousands of pounds had also been spent on offices and a fleet of new 4x4 vehicles. A new chief executive had rescued the charity, but by 2022, many of the 560 rotating local staff caring for about 78,000 children were complaining about their pay and conditions, not least because one-third were facing disciplinary proceedings. A camp financed by a donor for £250,000 had been effectively abandoned. Harry had not ordered Sentebale’s chief executive Richard Miller to visit Lesotho since his appointment in 2019. Locals in South Africa assumed that Harry was uninterested in the turmoil. Indeed, after arriving in Tokyo, it looked to be true.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s anger that day in Japan had been triggered by Haruhisa Handa’s loud executive director Midori Miyazaki. Having agreed to just one intimate dinner for twenty people, Harry discovered that Miyazaki had also arranged for him to speak in an arena to over 2,000 people followed by a gala dinner for 250 guests. Harry was expected to meet, greet and speak at both events. He also realised that very few <span id="page_233"/>had ever heard of Sentebale. Peeved that he was being ‘manipulated’ and ‘exploited’ by Miyazaki, Harry complained to Sentebale’s new chairwoman, Sophie Chandauka.</p>
<p class="txt">Appointed just weeks earlier, Chandauka, a Zimbabwean Oxford graduate and a senior associate at the global law firm Baker McKenzie, was flummoxed but not surprised by Harry’s irritation. Sentebale faced a watershed, she believed. For nearly twenty years, Harry had spoken about his devoted attention to Sentebale, but he had not visited Lesotho for four years and was unaware of the crisis.</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka’s appointment had followed a search by headhunters to find a replacement for the British marketing executive Johnny Hornby, the chairman since 2018. Just weeks before the end of the financial year, Hornby had signalled his exit. One of Hornby’s complaints was Sentebale’s precarious finances. The annual expenditure – roughly £3.5 million – was never covered by its income from international agencies including UNICEF and rich foundations. Every year, the charity was running at an annual loss of about £370,000 and dependent on its reserves. The five staff in the London office cost £600,000 a year. Like the trustees, none of them visited Lesotho and added little to the charity’s operation other than to organise Harry’s two annual polo matches. Even the famous polo matches proved to be of limited value. Each match cost about £400,000 to stage and the profit from donations was only about £350,000, about 18 per cent of Sentebale’s income.</p>
<p class="txt">The only relief to the charity’s precarious finances had come in 2022 after Harry contributed £1.1 million from the profits of <em>Spare</em>. But making the charity dependent on Harry’s book disturbed pro-royalist donors. Some supporters had even resigned. And once Harry’s ‘tainted’ donation was spent, Hornby admitted he had no solution to finding more money in Britain. Rich Americans, he agreed, were the charity’s best hope, but he had no contacts.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-481" id="en0-481" role="doc-noteref">481</a></sup> Unexpectedly, Hornby’s fate was sealed after his friend, the television presenter Jeremy Clarkson, <span id="page_234"/>publicly ridiculed Meghan. ‘When you cross Harry,’ said one insider, ‘you don’t last long.’</p>
<p class="txt">Another potential casualty, Chandauka discovered, was Midori Miyazaki. She had exploited Harry in Tokyo because she knew Sentebale’s finances were dire and that Harry relied on Handa’s donation. But Miyazaki failed to take into account Harry’s moods. Harry, Chandauka discovered, hated talking about money. He expected Chandauka to resolve all the problems created by her predecessors.</p>
<p class="txt">At the outset, Harry praised Chandauka’s ‘experience, passion for social change and entrepreneurial spirit’. Between 2015 and 2019 she had sat on Sentebale’s board, and in 2021 had received an MBE for ‘extraordinary services’ to diversity in business. Over the years, Chandauka had worked for Meta, Morgan Stanley and Virgin Money. She had also advised a slew of public companies including Nike, Citibank and Alliance Boots. ‘She will bring’, Harry said, a ‘tremendous benefit to Sentebale’s next chapter.’</p>
<p class="txt">With that experience, Chandauka told Harry a harsh truth: Sentebale was struggling. Gleaming SUVs were parked outside its Lesotho headquarters, but some HIV children in the villages appeared to have been abandoned by Sentebale.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-482" id="en0-482" role="doc-noteref">482</a></sup> The charity’s employees in Lesotho had presented a petition to Ntoli Moletsane, Sentebale’s country director, criticising their pay and conditions, and questioning the directors’ use of the charity’s funds.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-483" id="en0-483" role="doc-noteref">483</a></sup> The two directors based in London, Richard Miller and Graham Leith, were earning £350,000 plus many extras and, in her opinion, were overpaid and underperforming. Chandauka did not mention to Harry that a senior Lesotho government official, Chief Khoabane Theko, had complained that after marrying Meghan, Harry had lost interest in the charity and had not visited Lesotho.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-484" id="en0-484" role="doc-noteref">484</a></sup> Chandauka had asked Iain Rawlinson, a former banker who had been based in South Africa and now attached to Global Philanthropic, to support a review of the charity’s strategy.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_235"/>During her intensive conversations with Harry in Tokyo, Chandauka added that proper governance had become an essential condition of every charity’s funding. Corporate sponsors, Chandauka told Harry, were no longer willing to hand over money without their experts confirming, after due diligence, that Sentebale followed the rules of governance. Sentebale’s amateur accounts and traditional fundraising by Harry and his chums – a smile and a handshake – were unacceptable to potential corporate donors. Harry nodded but with hindsight, Chandauka realised he assumed that while she would do the governance, he would retain control. Better still for him, Chandauka believed, she was African. She should find new donors but he didn’t envisage any change. What Harry wanted, Harry got.</p>
<p class="txt">On their flight to Singapore, the outspoken lawyer introduced another unpleasant reality check. Corporate brands hate controversy. After conducting a brand audit among fifty organisations and donors, she told Harry she had discovered that his personal brand value had crashed. ‘People don’t want to be associated with your Netflix shows and especially not with Meghan,’ she reported. The survey also discovered that Meghan had little brand value in America. Across the globe, she actually damaged Harry’s remaining brand value.</p>
<p class="txt">Accustomed to being hailed as ‘box office’, Harry was stunned. Johnny Depp, he replied, had still attracted a lot of money despite his bitter courtroom battles with Amber Heard. Couldn’t he do the same? Times have changed, Chandauka replied. The proof was in the finances. Following critical comments about Harry and Meghan on the polo clubs’ websites and suspicions about Harry’s acceptance of a $1 million fee for addressing a conference in Florida organised by a controversial cryptocurrency firm,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-485" id="en0-485" role="doc-noteref">485</a></sup> American polo sponsors had cancelled their donations and Audi had withdrawn its annual $1 million sponsorship.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-486" id="en0-486" role="doc-noteref">486</a></sup> ‘They don’t want to be associated with a Page Six story,’ Chandauka told Harry, referring to the <em>New York Post</em>’s gossip column.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_236"/>Eyewitnesses at the polo match in Singapore noticed Harry’s coolness towards the new chairwoman. He pointedly failed to introduce Chandauka to guests and only reluctantly posed with her at a photocall, which was itself notable for Harry’s love grab at another man’s nipples.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-487" id="en0-487" role="doc-noteref">487</a></sup> Before Harry left Singapore, Miyazaki revealed that Handa was considering ending his sponsorship of Sentebale. In Harry’s version, Chandauka was to blame because she had allegedly insulted Miyazaki.</p>
<p class="txt">Sentebale, Harry told Chandauka, was relying too much on his money and his polo matches. He resented the pressure. He would only commit to future polo matches if the profit was doubled to at least £700,000. Chandauka realised that Harry hadn’t listened. He did not want to register that <em>Spare</em> and the Netflix series had damaged his brand value. And Nacho Figueras, added Chandauka, was hanging on to Harry to stem his own waning attraction.</p>
<p class="txt">By September 2023, Harry had understood Chandauka’s warning. At Sentebale’s board meeting, Harry agreed to close the charity’s London office, move the management to Lesotho and find more American donors. Most importantly, the charity would abandon its unique focus on HIV sufferers. Instead, under ‘Project Pivot’, Sentebale would promote children’s health and education. The transformation matched the ambitions of the staff in Lesotho and Botswana. Finally, Harry agreed to re-engage with Sentebale by flying to Lesotho in late 2024, his first visit after five years.</p>
<p class="txt">At the same meeting, the trustees considered Harry’s brand value. ‘The more you ascend, the less oxygen you have to tell the truth,’ Jonathan Mildenhall, a marketing expert introduced by Chandauka, told Harry. ‘<em>Spare</em> should have been called <em>Duty</em>,’ Mildenhall continued. ‘Your image is bad,’ the Prince was told. Raising money in America would be difficult because ‘you’re not special.’ ‘How come no one told me?’ asked Harry, puzzled by the term ‘brand audit’.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_237"/>The solution, Harry agreed, was to abandon the ‘poor rich Prince’ narrative and go back to basics. ‘Americans love a comeback story,’ said Chandauka. ‘We need American corporates who want to be associated with your mission, not you personally. They don’t want your victimhood. We’ve got to pitch it right for the young philanthropists. It can’t be Africans with a begging bowl.’</p>
<p class="txt">Days later, Harry and Chandauka’s relationship was tested. To restore goodwill, Chandauka met Midori Miyazaki for dinner at Nobu in New York. After sending back several bottles of champagne for lacking enough ‘bubble’, Miyazaki expressed her outrage that Harry objected to his over-exposure in Tokyo. Shortly after, Chandauka repeated Harry’s request that Handa double his annual donation to £1 million. Miyazaki’s anger soared. Insulted by Harry’s ingratitude for her loyalty after every other sponsor had pulled out, Miyazaki confirmed that Handa would no longer support Sentebale’s polo matches. With that, she ordered an Uber and disappeared. That night, Sentebale lost 23 per cent of its income.</p>
<p class="txt">The Nobu bust-up was reported to Harry, who blamed Chandauka for losing the sponsorship.‘Midori says that she won’t sponsor us unless you leave,’ he told Chandauka on a Zoom call. He went further. ‘Your brand audit has damaged me. You shouldn’t have done it.’ Supported by Mark Dyer’s emails, Harry implied that he had suffered psychological harm from the audit. Inevitably, Archewell’s publicists had fuelled their employers’ fears. Harry repeated Meghan’s alarm: Chandauka’s audit had also damaged his wife. The Zoom meeting ended on an unsettled note.</p>
<p class="txt">While Sentebale’s fate hung in the balance, a crisis bubbled at another of Harry’s charities. African Parks, a charity with an $83 million (£71.5 million) annual budget enhanced by multi-million-dollar annual grants from the European Union, is dedicated to protecting the wildlife in twenty-three national parks in thirteen <span id="page_238"/>African countries from poachers. Harry was persuaded to become the charity’s president in 2017 when the founder, Peter Fearnhead, the son of an Isle of Man fund manager, introduced him to some of America’s and Europe’s richest philanthropists, all donors to the organisation. Harry was doubly impressed after he accompanied six American senators and congressmen on a trip to Mozambique and Rwanda. Like the billionaires and the politicians, Harry said he was attracted to the charity’s ‘business approach to conservation’. It sold biodiversity and carbon credits called ‘verifiable nature units’, and paid bonuses to their ranger army to confront armed poachers. The combination of billionaires and the military appealed to Harry – until in 2023 when he came under pressure to resign as president.</p>
<p class="txt">Since 2013, Survival International, a human rights organisation, had accused the charity’s billionaire sponsors of paying African Parks’ rangers to hunt down and suppress West Africa’s Islamist insurgents, sometimes dying in the battles.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-488" id="en0-488" role="doc-noteref">488</a></sup> The Parks’ rangers were also accused of persecuting the indigenous Baka people in neighbouring Congo. The conservation group, according to Survival International’s investigators, had driven the Bakas out of their tribal lands on to barren land without grazing for their herds and denied their access to harvest medicinal herbs. The Bakas’ lands were transformed by ‘green colonialists’ into tourist national parks. African Parks’ armed rangers were also accused of raping and beating the Baka and killing poachers and other indigenous people.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-489" id="en0-489" role="doc-noteref">489</a></sup> Alleged poachers were tortured by ‘the swing’ – hung between branches and beaten.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-490" id="en0-490" role="doc-noteref">490</a></sup> ‘Conservation is for many indigenous people the primary threat to their existence,’ claimed Survival International.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-491" id="en0-491" role="doc-noteref">491</a></sup> In 2023, these allegations were sent to Harry and Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">To distract public attention from the catalogue of crimes, African Parks’ directors suggested to Harry that he switch from president to join the governing board of directors the following year.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-492" id="en0-492" role="doc-noteref">492</a></sup> Seemingly untroubled that the organisation had ceased to be a registered charity, <span id="page_239"/>Harry agreed to become more involved in promoting its good name.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-493" id="en0-493" role="doc-noteref">493</a></sup> Either he decided to ignore the allegations against African Parks or else he was motivated by William’s opposition to the charity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-494" id="en0-494" role="doc-noteref">494</a></sup> While Harry supported fencing to separate humans from animals, William favoured schemes financed by Tusk, a charity that financed locally led schemes and communities protecting the wildlife. To reinforce his attachment to African Parks, Harry agreed to propose to Netflix a documentary, produced and presented by himself, about African Parks’ campaign to protect the continent’s wildlife.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-495" id="en0-495" role="doc-noteref">495</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Nevertheless, stung by the negative publicity, Fearnhead commissioned an independent report into the allegations.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-496" id="en0-496" role="doc-noteref">496</a></sup> That was sufficient for Harry to resign as president and join the board. To some, it appeared that Harry was desperate to associate with the billionaires sponsoring the charity.</p>
<p class="txt">On his return to California, Harry bumped into more bad news. The Heritage Foundation in Washington DC, a conservative think tank, was probing whether Harry had been truthful in his original 2020 visa application to enter the USA from Canada. One sensitive question was whether he had taken banned drugs. A positive reply would normally mean his entry to America would have been denied. British newspapers had reported his drug habit and Harry had explicitly described himself as a serial drug offender in his book. The foundation appealed to a judge to order the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to release his visa application.</p>
<p class="txt">For the moment, Harry’s status was uncertain: did he enter America on an A-1 head of state visa, exempting him from paying taxes and immune from any prosecution, or an O-1 visa that left him exposed? Unknown to the Heritage Foundation, while Harry publicly insisted that ‘Home for me now, for the time being, is in the States,’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-497" id="en0-497" role="doc-noteref">497</a></sup> his primary residence was still registered as Frogmore. To protect him from the Heritage Foundation, Harry and Meghan asked how they could find <span id="page_240"/>help. Everything, they were advised, depended on the Democrats and the Biden administration.</p>
<p class="txt">Over the previous two years, Meghan had built a relationship with the Democrat hierarchy in California. Since urging Americans during the 2020 presidential election to ‘reject hate speech, misinformation and online negativity’ associated with Donald Trump, she had visited California’s governor Gavin Newsom, sparking speculation that she was seeking nomination to Congress. That relationship produced critical advice for Harry: the president could prevent a judge ordering the release of his visa application. And indeed the Department of Homeland Security did refuse to release Harry’s application. A judge upheld that rejection.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was also facing new embarrassments in London. In his case against the Home Office, a judge questioned the veracity of Harry’s ‘statements of truth’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-498" id="en0-498" role="doc-noteref">498</a></sup> Across the city, Sally Davey, the chief executive of his eco-travel campaign Travalyst, had launched the rebranding of the sustainable travel company without mentioning its founder, Harry. After signing up Tripadvisor, Google, Booking.com, Visa and Expedia, Davey decided the Prince was bad for the brand.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-499" id="en0-499" role="doc-noteref">499</a></sup> Not only because of his autobiography but also the hypocrisy of his own statements, as shown in a 2019 Instagram post: ‘There is a ticking clock to protect our planet – with climate change . . . and fossil fuel emissions, we are jeopardising this beautiful place we call home.’ His frequent flights on private jets mocked his piety. While back in Hollywood, an anonymous Netflix source conclusively pronounced about the Sussexes, ‘The lemon has been fully squeezed.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-500" id="en0-500" role="doc-noteref">500</a></sup> Battered from all sides, no comfort came from his family. There was silence from Buckingham Palace.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I thought someone would call,’ Harry told one of his few remaining British friends. Harry gave the impression to his friend that he was looking for reconciliation. Life in California had separated him from his roots. The Sussexes had been stripped of their HRH titles on the Royal <span id="page_241"/>Family website,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-501" id="en0-501" role="doc-noteref">501</a></sup> and photographs of Meghan and her children had been excluded from the Royal Collection. Moreover, Misan Harriman’s photograph of the Sussexes appearing at Manchester’s One Young World Summit was itself mired in controversy. ‘I’m humbled and proud to announce that my portrait is now part of the permanent collection at the National Portrait Gallery,’ posted Harriman. But the gallery disagreed. The portrait, said a spokesman, had been delivered without any prior discussion and it would not be displayed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-502" id="en0-502" role="doc-noteref">502</a></sup> There was worse to come.</p>
<p class="txt">The Netflix series and Harry’s book had not sunk the Windsors. America remained fascinated by the Royal Family. Over the previous year since his coronation, Charles had worked hard, broken formality and successfully shrugged aside any notion of being a caretaker king. Americans particularly admired William and Kate. Their refrain from any counter-attack against Harry had won respect. In a Gallup poll organised by <em>People</em> magazine, William was named the world’s most popular and unifying ‘newsmaker’, beating Donald Trump and Joe Biden.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-503" id="en0-503" role="doc-noteref">503</a></sup> On the eve of William flying to New York in early September 2023, Kensington Palace briefed that ‘This trip is part of his evolution as a global statesman which is incredibly important.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-504" id="en0-504" role="doc-noteref">504</a></sup> The Waleses were serious players. Unlike the endless resignations of the Sussexes’ staff, the Waleses’ household was stable. Their latest requirement for a new chief executive specified their search for a candidate who was ‘emotionally intelligent with low ego and strong self-awareness and understanding of their impact on others’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-505" id="en0-505" role="doc-noteref">505</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">William’s problem was in Britain. Polls showed that only 28 per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds supported the monarchy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-506" id="en0-506" role="doc-noteref">506</a></sup> The younger generation had little affection for the senior royals and, undoubtedly, a substantial number of young Britons sympathised with the Sussexes. To win over the disaffected and ease William’s transition to be the next king, the new Prince and Princess of Wales bombarded the public on social media with videos about their family life, promoting their <span id="page_242"/>children and William’s focus on big causes, especially the environment and the homeless.</p>
<p class="txt">Alongside their own battle for popularity, William and Kate rejected Harry’s feelers for reconciliation. Neither of the Waleses were willing to forgive the Sussexes. On the contrary, William insisted that Harry be decisively unwelcomed when he returned to Britain on 7th September. Harry’s request to stay overnight in a royal palace, preferably Windsor Castle, was rejected. The staff, he was told, had moved for the summer to Balmoral. He was offered alternative accommodation, which he turned down.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-507" id="en0-507" role="doc-noteref">507</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The next day, some members of the Royal Family at Balmoral were commemorating Queen Elizabeth’s life. Harry was not invited, although his spokesman would say that he had rejected the invitation to fly to Scotland. Charles’s short public address thanking the nation for their ‘love and support as we do our utmost to be of service to you all’ raised one unanswered question: Had the Sussexes permanently damaged the monarchy?<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-508" id="en0-508" role="doc-noteref">508</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Staying at a hotel near Windsor, Harry visited the Queen’s grave inside St George’s Chapel. Inevitably, there was no arrangement for him to call on William, who was actually present at Adelaide Cottage, his four-bedroom home on the Windsor estate.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-509" id="en0-509" role="doc-noteref">509</a></sup> In the evening, Harry headed to the WellChild Awards ceremony at the Hurlingham Club. As the patron since 2007, Harry was warmly welcomed. Over the years, he had donated £750,000 to the charity. Mixing with the parents of seriously ill children, he inevitably spoke about Diana: ‘She is looking down at us tonight.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-510" id="en0-510" role="doc-noteref">510</a></sup> The emotions were genuine but Harry appeared unable to move on. It appeared to many that he needed applause to escape from his demons. Fortunately, the following day, the Invictus Games offered the chance to show himself at his best.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>