<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 26</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct26" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct26"><span id="page_243"/>CHAPTER 26</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Düsseldorf</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Arriving in Düsseldorf, the Prince commanded the stage. He was the unquestioned star in the Merkur Spiel-Arena. Five hundred competitors and 1,100 family members had come from twenty-one countries to show that war injuries could be overcome. Thanks to the sponsors, the German government and the Invictus organisers, the arena on the opening day was packed for a star-studded music show. ‘<em>Ich bin ein Düsseldorfer</em>,’ cried Harry and the excited crowd stood and cheered and yelled ‘Harry’. However, after the buzzy showbiz event, the mood in the stadium was downbeat and anti-climactic, and for the next two days, Harry pottered around watching the sporting competitions in empty venues. Few paying spectators sat in the cavernous halls. Harry, said his publicist Beth Herlihy, would remain on the sidelines. The star attraction should be the competitors. Meghan, it seemed, had another idea.</p>
<p class="txt">On 12th September, the atmosphere in the arena was suddenly electrified. Meghan had arrived. Apologies for the late arrival, she told 1,600 people in an otherwise empty arena built for 54,600 spectators. She had been delayed by family duties: ‘I had to spend a little more time getting our little ones settled at home – three milkshakes and a school drop-off.’ Few outsiders cared about her two minutes of contrived introduction, but her audience was enraptured.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_244"/>With Meghan in town for the Sussexes’ first joint public appearance since the New York car chase, and the fourth time out together over the previous ten months, Harry was pushed into the background. ‘My husband is a man of few words this evening,’ laughed Meghan as the previously friendly Prince looked noticeably sullen.</p>
<p class="txt">Insiders spoke about tensions between them and arguments about their children. Harry was reportedly irritated that Meghan used their children to promote herself. He believed they should remain shielded from the media to avoid the exposure he had suffered as a child. Worried about security, Harry insisted that their children should not be photographed. Meghan argued the opposite. The children, she believed, were important for her brand. She spoke of them living as normal Californian children. More pointedly, she demanded that in time, her little prince and princess should have the same exposure as William and Kate’s children. Eyewitnesses speculated that the tension between the couple was resolved, or perhaps not, in their presidential suite in the Hyatt Regency.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s use of her children was a sideshow compared with the real cause of friction between the couple: Düsseldorf became Meghan’s global fashion parade for her brand. Every few hours, her publicist briefed journalists about the latest clothes she was wearing. At first, a black Banana Republic dress, a Bottega Veneta belt and black high-heeled Aquazzura shoes. As the Sussexes entered the arena for wheelchair basketball, her publicist briefed that she was wearing a J. Crew cardigan. After the news hit social media, unprecedented demand crashed the brand’s website. And then she changed into Chanel and Givenchy. The next day she wore Zara, Celine and Saint Laurent. Repeatedly, Meghan posed for selfies.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-511" id="en0-511" role="doc-noteref">511</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Even her hair colourist, Kadi Lee, and stylist, Jason Low, were promoted, despite their salon, Highbrow Hippie Haircare, being based in Venice, California. ‘I truly have a soft spot for beautiful brunette hair <span id="page_245"/>colour,’ the publicist quoted Meghan. ‘It requires a gentle touch when highlighting or low lighting and adding dimension, and depending on the season can range from deep and striking to glossy and regal.’ The following year, Meghan would invest in the business.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-512" id="en0-512" role="doc-noteref">512</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Invictus was Meghan’s stage. A visiting delegation from the organising committee for Vancouver, the next venue for the Games, was dazzled by the Duchess. They even discussed what her high heels would do to a hardwood floor in Vancouver. One delegate’s question remained unanswered: ‘Why doesn’t she just wear Adidas sneakers?’ Another Canadian commented, ‘Her shoes seem out of place.’ Just like the Germans, some of the the Canadians were baffled by Meghan’s use of a disabled servicemen’s event to reinvigorate her profile.</p>
<p class="txt">Shortly before arriving, Meghan had announced that DNA tests revealed her mother’s Nigerian ancestry. That became the curtain-raiser at a volleyball competition. Waving the Nigerian flag while standing alongside Nigeria’s defence minister, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, Meghan privately agreed with the defence minister that she and Harry would make a ‘state visit’ to the country the following year.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-513" id="en0-513" role="doc-noteref">513</a></sup> At the end of the match, she posed as usual for photos. Impatiently, Harry urged her to leave.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-514" id="en0-514" role="doc-noteref">514</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan resisted giving any interviews but Harry wanted a platform during his own games. On his publicist’s recommendation, he decided to trust the German ZDF TV journalist Ulrike Grunewald. Alongside him throughout the week, Grunewald dismissed the speculation about the couple’s imminent separation: ‘They seem intimate and very close,’ she reported. ‘Either that or they are very good actors.’ Harry saw no reason not to rely on the German’s assurances of producing a favourable documentary.</p>
<p class="txt">To keep Harry in the news, his thirty-ninth birthday dinner, which was celebrated in a traditional <em>bierkeller</em>, the Im Goldenen Kessel, was ‘leaked’ by his publicist to <em>Hello!</em> magazine. Britain’s journalists rushed <span id="page_246"/>to Düsseldorf’s old town to witness the end of the dinner. The following morning, his actual birthday, was ignored by the Royal Family. But in the packed stadium – awaiting another star-studded pop concert – Düsseldorf’s mayor Stephan Keller presented a chocolate cake to the Prince. As the stadium sang ‘Happy Birthday to You’, Harry beamed. Meghan did not come on to the stage for Harry’s emotional closing speech, instead deciding to stay out of view.</p>
<p class="txt">‘You should not feel lost without your uniform,’ Harry told the competitors. ‘You have provided the magic to impact on millions of people around the world.’ As the stadium rose for a standing ovation, he repeated, ‘<em>Danke schön</em>.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-515" id="en0-515" role="doc-noteref">515</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Having ended on a high note, Harry could not resist attacking his enemies in an aside after he stepped down. The <em>Sun</em> and other British newspapers, he said, had ignored the plight of wounded veterans. That was untrue. The <em>Sun</em> had always sponsored Help for Heroes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-516" id="en0-516" role="doc-noteref">516</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Unseen, the Sussexes flew on to Portugal. Their hosts were Eugenie, Prince Andrew’s younger daughter, and her husband Jack Brooksbank. After promoting George Clooney’s tequila, Brooksbank’s new job was selling plots of land and houses at the Costa Terra Golf &amp; Ocean Club in Melides. The development was founded by Clooney’s business partner. Months later, the Sussexes were said to have bought a plot.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-517" id="en0-517" role="doc-noteref">517</a></sup> That was a fantasy to boost sales. The cold Atlantic and an undeveloped beach were unlikely to be an appealing destination for Californians.</p>
<p class="txt">Rejuvenated by success in Düsseldorf, the Sussexes returned to Montecito. The ecstatic welcome in Germany and the positive headlines in Britain reassured both that the bad polling had been buried. Three weeks later, they set off for a new adventure.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>