<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 27</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct27" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct27"><span id="page_247"/>CHAPTER 27</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Where Billionaires Escape from Millionaires</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">On 10th October 2023, a convoy of seven SUVs, escorted by police cars with blaring sirens, transported Meghan and Harry from the Equinox Hotel in midtown Manhattan to Brooklyn. The adrenaline rush as they sped through New York’s traffic must have excited the Sussexes. Five months after the now famous ‘catastrophic car chase’, the NYPD provided the Sussexes with VVIP protection.</p>
<p class="txt">That morning, the couple were visiting the ‘alternative’ Marcy Lab School for ‘underestimated’ engineering students. Again, Meghan’s publicist briefed the media about her clothes. She had dressed in black skinny jeans, Jennifer Chamandi-designed Mary Jane shoes and a letterman jacket given to her at an Essex school on International Women’s Day in March 2020. Meghan was promoting herself. During a discussion with the students in a computer room about education, she interrupted Harry to express her opinions.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-518" id="en0-518" role="doc-noteref">518</a></sup> He reportedly looked crestfallen, especially when Meghan suddenly interjected, ‘I wish my kids were here with us but they are doing well.’</p>
<p class="txt">Back in their hotel suite shortly before lunchtime, Meghan changed into a $2,000 white off-the-shoulder Altuzarra cocktail top and trousers <span id="page_248"/>with camel Aquazzura pumps, and had her hair styled in the signature messy chignon. To complete the look, Meghan’s publicist briefed the media that she wore gold bespoke earrings by Sarah Hendler and a $4,100 Logan Hollowell emerald choker. But Meghan and Harry were not heading for a celebrity bash but to meet parents whose children had committed suicide after online bullying.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-519" id="en0-519" role="doc-noteref">519</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes were hosting their first in-person event. It was called ‘The Archewell Foundation Parents’ Summit: Mental Wellness in a Digital Age’ and they planned to provide a platform for parents navigating their children’s mental health problems, especially families who were ‘passionate about building a safer online world for children and teens’. It was arguably not a coincidence that on the same day, William was hosting a hundred young people in Birmingham to discuss the same on World Mental Health Day.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-520" id="en0-520" role="doc-noteref">520</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes took a lift to the hotel’s basement garage. The seven-vehicle convoy and police cars were waiting. Exiting the hotel, the convoy turned left into 33rd Street, drove 47 metres and entered the garage of 100 Hudson Yard, the venue for the conference.</p>
<p class="txt">Since the morning, hundreds of people had been listening to speeches in many rooms for an event entitled ‘Project Healthy Minds’. The Sussexes hosted what a friendly eyewitness described as an ‘intimate event’ in a ‘cosy room’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-521" id="en0-521" role="doc-noteref">521</a></sup> Videos showed an audience of fewer than twenty people. Sitting alongside the Sussexes in the panel were NBC’s Carson Daly and Vivek Murthy, the US Surgeon General. To illustrate ‘How the internet and social media affect youth mental health’, two families first described their children’s suicides after watching social media. The question, Vivek Murthy posed, was whether social media caused mental illness among young people.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-522" id="en0-522" role="doc-noteref">522</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">At a critical moment, Carson Daly turned to Harry and asked, ‘What do you think a healthy social media environment will look like in the future – when you think about the work that your foundation is <span id="page_249"/>doing?’ Nonplussed, Harry replied, ‘I don’t know.’ Meghan turned to very briefly stare at Harry and then poured out a lengthy explanation, confirming that neither had a plan for safe social media.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-523" id="en0-523" role="doc-noteref">523</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To fill the void, Harry then emphasised that other than Archewell, ‘There’s no one else working in this space.’ The tech companies were so big and so powerful, he said, that they ignored the problem. ‘That’s a reason why I think people are scared and feel helpless.’ This inaccuracy prompted Meghan to steer the discussion towards herself and the anecdotes about her alleged suicidal thoughts when she lived in Kensington Palace.</p>
<p class="txt">One year later, the panel’s fifty-minute discussion had attracted a mere 8,500 viewers on YouTube – and over a hundred hostile comments. Some critics wrote that Meghan pretended to influence culture but said nothing unique or creative. A few viewers confirmed there was no mystery about Meghan. Overall, her familiar confessions had left a sense of disappointment.</p>
<p class="txt">Hours after the event, the Sussexes drove into Teterboro Airport. A privately owned Dassault Falcon 7X was waiting to fly them to Canouan, a Caribbean island in the Grenadines. The jet’s owner, the British hedge fund financier Ian Wace, had first met William and Kate in June 2011 and co-hosted their first gala charity dinner at Kensington Palace to raise funds for mental health. In 2019, Wace financed the ‘fab four’ to establish Shout, a charity to help young people facing mental problems or ‘a tough moment’, and later he backed a fundraiser for Sentebale.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-524" id="en0-524" role="doc-noteref">524</a></sup> After arriving in California, Meghan and Harry maintained the relationship.Wace’s wife, Saffron Aldridge, a former Ralph Lauren model, enjoyed a wide range of contacts in Hollywood – including Gwyneth Paltrow, Bryan Adams and Sting. A well-connected Hollywood ranker with a private jet is always a helpful friend to have.</p>
<p class="txt">Canouan is known as a tax haven for billionaires to escape from millionaires. The island, run by a gruff businessman – who had recently <span id="page_250"/>become infamous after an argument over a woman between an Irish hotel owner and an Italian – featured attractions including Donald Trump’s golf courses, a casino and a residence owned by Soho House. Less attractive was the island’s reputation of having an unofficial apartheid system which discriminated against black employees. Canouan’s fishermen were pushed aside to make way for the super-rich. They were denied access to some beaches, teenage pregnancy was rife and they had an absence of a decent secondary school and poor healthcare.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-525" id="en0-525" role="doc-noteref">525</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Eyewitnesses reported that the Sussexes appeared untroubled by those abuses as they switched between their villa, Soho House and the empty sandy beaches. For them, the week on a discreet island was an ideal moment to take stock of an exceptionally turbulent four months.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan had been through the wringer enough to recognise that bad could get worse. The previous months had been plagued by indecision and problems. Weighing up the advances against the setbacks since May 2023, the defeats appeared insurmountable – but not for Meghan. ‘Hollywood loves a comeback’ had been her mantra for years. That would be her agenda over the following week.</p>
<p class="txt">Canouan’s detached atmosphere allowed Meghan and Harry to review their lives. They could be relieved that Düsseldorf and New York appeared to have repaired the damage sparked by the ‘grifters’ label. Fortunately, Netflix agreed to announce Harry’s polo series and although Amazon Audible had rejected Meghan’s pitch to host a podcast series, Lemonada, a female-founded company seeking to ‘make life suck less’ was delighted to sign up ‘a transformative celebrity’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-526" id="en0-526" role="doc-noteref">526</a></sup> Crucially, Netflix had also agreed to produce Meghan’s new lifestyle series that would launch American Riviera Orchard, her new brand offering home, garden, food and lifestyle wares. In all, at the end of their holiday they could feel certain of their future path.</p>
<p class="txt">A private jet flew them from Canouan to Atlanta. Harry went on alone to Austin, Texas. As the guest of the former Scottish Formula <span id="page_251"/>One champion Jackie Stewart, he watched the F1 race won on 22nd October by Red Bull’s Max Verstappen. A private jet flew Harry back to Santa Barbara.</p>
<p class="txt">The feel-good moments did not last long. Two days later, cartoon parody show <em>Family Guy</em> showed Harry and Meghan sitting by a pool. A butler presents a wodge of cash.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Sir, your millions from Netflix for no one knows what.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘Put it with the rest of them,’ orders Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-527" id="en0-527" role="doc-noteref">527</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Once again, the couple were seen as entitled grifters. Meghan, as ever, refused to be humiliated and was certain she could contain the latest damage by being photographed with celebrities. Katy Perry’s concert in Las Vegas was ideal. Hitching a ride on Michael Herd’s private jet along with Cameron Diaz, Celine Dion and Zoe Saldaña put Meghan back on track. Harry, however, reportedly could not conceal his boredom, preoccupied with another argument with his father.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-528" id="en0-528" role="doc-noteref">528</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">During the trip to Las Vegas, there were conflicting newspaper reports about whether Harry had rejected an invitation to Charles’s seventy-fifth birthday party the following week in Clarence House. In reality, Harry was not invited. The fragile relationship with the Palace had been disrupted earlier in the year. Under pressure, the King had agreed to Harry’s suggestion of a private telephone conversation, their first in six months after the Queen’s funeral. To the monarch’s surprise, Montecito publicists later leaked the event to a newspaper as a ‘turning point’. Irritated by Harry’s indiscretion, the Palace was bewildered by the newspaper’s suggestion that the Sussexes would accept a family invitation to Sandringham or Balmoral. Not only would William, Kate and the family refuse to meet the Sussexes, but the King would resist associating with Harry while his litigation against the government continued. In Buckingham Palace, everyone concluded once again that the Sussexes could not be trusted.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-529" id="en0-529" role="doc-noteref">529</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Palace officials believed the controversy was created by the Sussexes as <span id="page_252"/>a ruse to focus on Charles’s recent state visit to Kenya. Critics, including the Sussexes, had highlighted his refusal to apologise for Britain’s colonial regime. The reason, said anti-royalists, was the King’s racism.</p>
<p class="txt">The Palace’s distrust of the Sussexes redoubled after <em>People</em> magazine serialised <em>Endgame</em>, Omid Scobie’s new book about the Royal Family, which was published in November 2023. The Queen’s death, splashed the magazine, created two victims – Harry and Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-530" id="en0-530" role="doc-noteref">530</a></sup> Originally, the Sussexes had welcomed the opportunity offered by Scobie to stir things up. Now, Meghan simpered, the timing was most unfortunate.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>