<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 28</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct28" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct28"><span id="page_253"/>CHAPTER 28</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Endgame</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">The Sussexes trusted Omid Scobie. The Anglo-Iranian journalist, born in Wales in 1981, had loyally reported their distress in Kensington Palace and the Royal Family’s vindictiveness after they fled to California. To boost Meghan’s claim against the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>, Scobie had signed an untruthful statement denying that he had received any assistance from Meghan in writing <em>Finding Freedom</em>, his bestselling book published in August 2020. In reality, he had submitted a long list of questions to the Sussexes’ publicist Jason Knauf and Meghan had answered them at length. Scobie had continued to rely on the Sussexes after their move to Montecito to provide authoritative reports about their thoughts and activities for American magazines and TV. In turn, the Sussexes relied on Scobie to promote their truth.</p>
<p class="txt">Scobie was a natural soulmate for Meghan. He enjoyed luxury. On his social media platforms, he posed in a gold smoking jacket, touted Chanel skis, wore expensive jewellery and visited the best restaurants. Proving his loyalty, he had appeared as Harry’s witness in his case against Mirror Group Newspapers and had denounced Piers Morgan as a hacker.</p>
<p class="txt">Two years since <em>Finding Freedom</em>’s publication, Scobie and the Sussexes shared a continuing dislike of the Royal Family. Scobie’s vitriol was fuelled by the criticism of his first book and himself. Racism, he <span id="page_254"/>believed, had motivated that disapproval. He moved to America and re-categorised himself as ‘mixed race’ instead of Anglo-Iranian. The Royal Family’s ‘racism’, he and the Sussexes agreed, had similarly driven the Sussexes to flee to California. He pronounced that Meghan had been a ‘woman of colour working in an entitled, exceedingly white space’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-531" id="en0-531" role="doc-noteref">531</a></sup> He concurred with the Sussexes that racism among the Palace’s staff was endemic. That was a good reason for them to collaborate again. Jointly, it seemed, they had a common purpose.</p>
<p class="txt">With the Sussexes’ help, Scobie weaved <em>Endgame</em>’s prediction of the monarchy’s sunset or ‘nightfall’ amid Britain’s irreversible decline. The monarchy’s demise had been hastened, Scobie wrote, by the Sussexes’ departure. Supported by the Sussexes, he believed that his intimate portrayal of the Royal Family would be another bombshell. Until publication, its contents were secret.</p>
<p class="txt">Scobie’s publishers, HarperCollins, owned by Rupert Murdoch, were impressed by Scobie’s speed in delivering the book. His editors, led by Carrie Thornton, were also certain that he had relied on trustworthy sources at the palaces and especially on Meghan herself. ‘I’m not sure that Harry ever trusted Scobie,’ recalled one editor, ‘but Omid was fed lines by Meghan. And from Harry through another person.’ In particular, his editors assumed that ‘the stuff on Kate – phrases like “Katie Keen” – and the revelations she was “cosplaying Diana” came from Meghan.’ One shocking allegation about the racist royals was also sourced by the editors from the Duchess.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-532" id="en0-532" role="doc-noteref">532</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><em>Endgame</em>’s broad canvas, akin to <em>Spare</em>, depicted in Scobie’s words the ‘cantankerous, fragile’ King – ‘a waffler and a dilettante’ whose shoelaces were ironed – of engaging in a perpetual battle against the ‘combustible’, ‘adulterous’, ‘lazy and dishonest’ William. Scobie echoed Harry’s illustration of the tension in the family, fuelled by Charles’s fear that William would ‘upstage’ him. Scobie was naturally pleased by the controversy that wrecked the Cambridges’ visit to Jamaica in 2022.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_255"/>Echoing the Sussexes’ own damnation of the Royal Family, Scobie described the rival Windsors fighting each other while the corrupt King and his jealous older son, surrounded by ‘a tiny minority of British society – white, privileged and well-heeled’, struggled against growing republicanism as the monarchy ‘crumbled’. Focusing on Charles’s poor decisions, not least about Prince Andrew, Scobie predicted that William would be Britain’s last king. The ‘pliable future Queen’, dismissed as a ‘Stepford-like royal wife’, was obviously ‘scarred’ by her jealousy of Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-533" id="en0-533" role="doc-noteref">533</a></sup> Scobie had likely satisfied the Duchess’s wish to highlight Kate’s envy.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes, in Scobie’s retelling, were the victims of innumerable secret agreements between the media and the Palace. While the Sussexes were convinced about the dissolute disintegration within Buckingham Palace, they were also haunted by conspiracies orchestrated against them, they believed, on the orders of Charles and William. In Harry’s version, William was ‘increasingly comfortable with the Palace’s dirty tricks and the courtiers who dream them up’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-534" id="en0-534" role="doc-noteref">534</a></sup> mirroring the intensive media campaign waged by Charles after 1996 to rehabilitate Camilla. In that bygone era, a Buckingham Palace official had sniped that Charles reigned over ‘an old-fashioned court filled with a sackful of snakes’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-535" id="en0-535" role="doc-noteref">535</a></sup> In Scobie’s version, Charles and Camilla ‘had leaked personal details about [Harry’s] life to save their own skin’, while Charles and William combined to destroy Meghan and Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-536" id="en0-536" role="doc-noteref">536</a></sup> No examples of the skulduggery were offered.</p>
<p class="txt">For <em>Endgame</em>, Harry’s intermediary told Scobie that the reports about Meghan’s bullying first published in <em>The Times</em> in 2021 were untrue. Two of the three employees, said Harry, had withdrawn their allegations. The third woman was ‘unreliable’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-537" id="en0-537" role="doc-noteref">537</a></sup> Harry, Scobie added, ‘was gutted that his family would watch this kind of dirty game played out’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-538" id="en0-538" role="doc-noteref">538</a></sup> Harry, though, never published his 25-page rebuttal of the bullying allegations to prove Meghan’s innocence.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_256"/>Scobie also described how William had intentionally maligned his brother. William was accused of inspiring false descriptions in the tabloids about Harry’s precarious mental health. ‘It’s pretty disgusting they would pull out the mental health card for this,’ Scobie quoted Harry’s spokesman.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-539" id="en0-539" role="doc-noteref">539</a></sup> Harry’s repeated public confessions about his mental breakdown over the previous seven years were ignored.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-540" id="en0-540" role="doc-noteref">540</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The BBC, according to Scobie, co-operated with the Palace’s dirty tricks. In the aftermath of the corporation admitting in 2021 that the <em>Panorama</em> interview with Diana had been obtained by deceit at the highest level within the organisation, the BBC’s Director-General banned further broadcasts of the interview. But in Harry’s opinion, it was Charles who had demanded the suppression of the famous interview. His reason was to ‘derail’ or stifle Diana’s thunderous assertion that Charles was unsuitable to be king. Harry also believed that those describing Diana as fragile and manipulated were authors of a ‘masterful snow job from the Palace’. His spokesman told Scobie that the same smears had been produced against Harry: ‘It’s happening to him too.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-541" id="en0-541" role="doc-noteref">541</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><em>Endgame</em> also gave Harry the opportunity to revise his judgement of Camilla as ‘dangerous’ and ‘evil’. In the new scenario, Harry rowed back. Scobie now set the record straight: ‘There is no animosity on Harry’s side . . . He doesn’t consider Camilla an “evil stepmother”.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-542" id="en0-542" role="doc-noteref">542</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In another revision, Scobie could evidently not resist mischaracterising Charles’s relationship with Camilla. Over the years, royal writers lazily accepted the version that Charles’s request to marry Camilla in the early 1970s had been vetoed by his mother because Camilla was neither a virgin nor an aristocrat.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-543" id="en0-543" role="doc-noteref">543</a></sup> The reality was different. In 1973, Camilla was deeply in love with the dashing army officer Andrew Parker Bowles. She never wanted to marry Charles. After Charles’s phone call from the West Indies – unhappily he was on duty with the Royal Navy – to congratulate Camilla on her engagement, she replaced the receiver and laughed loudly with Andrew Parker Bowles about the ‘Prince being <span id="page_257"/>an emotionally immature boy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-544" id="en0-544" role="doc-noteref">544</a></sup> Camilla’s misfortune was that Parker Bowles never really loved her. His reluctant proposal of marriage followed his commanding officer’s order that his single status was unacceptable. Officers of the Royal Horse Guards were expected to marry. Camilla was chosen as ‘the best of the bunch’ of his many girlfriends.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-545" id="en0-545" role="doc-noteref">545</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Naturally, Harry knew dozens of similar outlandish anecdotes involving his father and brother. Many had been deleted from <em>Spare</em>’s manuscript. But few were as harmful as Harry’s accusation that Buckingham Palace was permeated by uncontrolled racism.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ agenda was clear. Until the rise of Black Lives Matter in May 2020, Meghan had been relatively silent about race. Her stance altered after returning to California. Implicit in championing her mixed-race background, Meghan joined those criticising white people. Echoing the historians featured on Netflix to highlight the racism implicit in historic furnishings at the palaces, Scobie embellished accusations that the royals’ wealth was ‘built on the backs of others’ from the proceeds of slavery.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-546" id="en0-546" role="doc-noteref">546</a></sup> Not only, wrote Scobie, did Susan Hussey ask Ngozi Fulani ‘at least seven times where she was from’ at the Buckingham Palace reception, but Hussey’s racism was excused by the Royal Family.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-547" id="en0-547" role="doc-noteref">547</a></sup> In Fulani’s original version, the nearly deaf elderly woman asked the question three times.</p>
<p class="txt">To hammer home the Palace’s racism,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-548" id="en0-548" role="doc-noteref">548</a></sup> Scobie highlighted Meghan’s comments to Oprah Winfrey about ‘several conversations . . . in those months when I was pregnant’ with the Royal Family about the colour of her unborn son’s skin. Winfrey had summarised the several conversations: ‘They were concerned that if he were too brown that would be a problem?’ Meghan agreed. Meghan’s ‘truth’ fuelled global headlines damning the Royal Family. With the Sussexes’ agreement, Scobie reinforced Meghan’s accusation and gave the firm impression that he had been briefed by the Sussexes’ staff about the letters exchanged between Charles and Meghan following the Winfrey interview, <span id="page_258"/>in which the King had allegedly written that there was ‘no ill-will or casual prejudice present when the two people had spoken [to Harry] about his future grandson’.</p>
<p class="txt">In the Oprah Winfrey interview, Harry said the single conversation was ‘right at the beginning’ of their relationship ‘before we even got married’. Harry’s teatime conversation in Clarence House in 2016 with Charles and Camilla was, as Harry revealed, light-hearted.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-549" id="en0-549" role="doc-noteref">549</a></sup> Harry was not troubled by the banter until Meghan weaponised it.</p>
<p class="txt">Presumably relying on Meghan, Scobie wrote in the draft that the two royals involved in the ‘several conversations’ were Charles and Kate. But Kate was not involved in Harry’s single conversation. The circumstances of those fictitious conversations were not described. Innocent Kate, the future Queen, appeared to have been deliberately stigmatised.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles’s and Kate’s names appeared in Scobie’s manuscript until the publishers insisted the names be removed. In their place, Scobie wrote that British laws prevented him from identifying the guilty royals.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-550" id="en0-550" role="doc-noteref">550</a></sup> That excuse avoided accusations of inaccuracy. The manuscript was then distributed to publishers across the world for translation.</p>
<p class="txt">In the weeks before the book’s publication, every move by Kate and William was monitored by the Sussexes’ team. It was not a coincidence that just as William landed in Singapore for the third Earthshot Prize in early November, Harry released a video of himself wearing four medals and a poppy with the caption ‘Gingers, an endangered species’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-551" id="en0-551" role="doc-noteref">551</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan chose the eve of the keenly anticipated publication of <em>Endgame</em> as the moment to stage yet another relaunch. Meghan, her publicists said, was making a ‘strategic effort’ to pose as a ‘power player’. Although her brand American Riviera Orchard remained a secret, her publicists quoted her impatience: ‘We have so many exciting things on the slate. I can’t wait until we announce them.’ To fill the vacuum, Meghan muttered about creating ‘things that make people feel a sense of community’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-552" id="en0-552" role="doc-noteref">552</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_259"/>The venue Meghan chose to stage her latest relaunch without Harry was the red carpet at the Power of Women Hollywood gala hosted by <em>Variety</em> magazine. Standing with Universal Studio Group chairwoman Pearlena Igbokwe and Janet Yang, president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, she was ‘thrilled’ to be back in the entertainment business. Other guests included Mariah Carey, Emily Blunt, Terri Seymour and Leonardo DiCaprio. None featured with Meghan in any photographs.</p>
<p class="txt">Her rare appearance in Hollywood generated attention but raised questions about her ability to translate the publicity into hard cash. Even Scobie admitted that standing on the red carpet was just another photo opportunity. ‘They really need to establish what their purpose is,’ he volunteered.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-553" id="en0-553" role="doc-noteref">553</a></sup> Being seen with Harry was deemed unwise unless the reach was global. The Sussexes decided not to publicise a joint visit to the Navy SEALs’ fitness base in San Diego ahead of Remembrance Sunday.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-554" id="en0-554" role="doc-noteref">554</a></sup> But the Invictus Games was different.</p>
<p class="txt">On 21st November 2003, Meghan appeared at an ice hockey game in Vancouver with Harry to publicise the next Invictus Games, which were set for 2025. Meghan waved at fans and recalled her stint in <em>Suits,</em> filmed in Toronto, and Harry dropped the puck to start the game.</p>
<p class="txt">In London, in the week before <em>Endgame</em>’s publication, the Windsors agreed ‘not to be emotionally blackmailed’ by Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-555" id="en0-555" role="doc-noteref">555</a></sup> The whole Royal Family was summoned to welcome the president of South Korea and his wife to Buckingham Palace for a state dinner.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-556" id="en0-556" role="doc-noteref">556</a></sup> Charles had just returned to London after speaking at COP28 in Dubai. William and Kate had hosted a formal reception at the Royal Albert Hall. Unity in strength was the Palace’s agenda.</p>
<p class="txt">On 24th November, Scobie launched his book. Speaking authoritatively in interviews, he boasted that ‘people around’ the <span id="page_260"/>Sussexes had briefed him about the ‘ins and outs’ of the Sussexes’ battles with the Royal Family.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-557" id="en0-557" role="doc-noteref">557</a></sup> As an insider, Scobie said with certainty that the Sussexes had become ‘disruptors’ because Charles mishandled their decision to leave. They had been in ‘a desperate place’. They simply wanted to be heard, but Charles was too stubborn. Harry, he said, wanted to ‘forget’ his recent troubles and end the feud with his family – if necessary, without an apology. But Meghan would have nothing to do with the royals. She would never set foot in England again, he said.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-558" id="en0-558" role="doc-noteref">558</a></sup> Some in the Palace would say that rather than ‘disruptors’, the Sussexes were ‘destroyers’.</p>
<p class="txt">Scobie attacked the Royal Family for trying to ‘sweep’ the issue of race under the rug and not ‘properly address’ its prejudice. Scobie then said that Meghan’s letter to Charles had accused the Royal Family of ‘unconscious bias’. She had never suggested that they were racist.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-559" id="en0-559" role="doc-noteref">559</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As the Sussexes’ mouthpiece, Scobie faced a tricky question. He was asked why the Sussexes were entitled to brief him against the Royal Family, but if Buckingham Palace briefed about the Sussexes it was a conspiracy to undermine the couple. Quickly, Scobie denied any relationship with Harry and Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-560" id="en0-560" role="doc-noteref">560</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">And Scobie was asked to reconcile another contradiction. Why had Meghan sued the <em>Mail on Sunday</em> after her letter to her father was leaked on the grounds of privacy, yet someone on her staff had leaked Charles’s letter to her about racism? Scobie remained silent. Meghan would deny that she had leaked Charles’s letter but as an English court had commented, she had previously suffered from an ‘unfortunate lapse of memory’.</p>
<p class="txt">Within three days, Scobie was under pressure from the media to confirm the identity of the two royals accused by Meghan of racism. Unexpectedly, the names Charles and Kate had been printed in the Dutch edition. Scobie emphatically denied any responsibility. ‘I never submitted a book that had their names in it,’ he told one TV programme. ‘There’s never been a version that I’ve produced that has names in it,’ he told another interviewer. He blamed ‘translation errors’ <span id="page_261"/>for the inclusion. He even swore on his parents’ lives that his denials were the truth.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-561" id="en0-561" role="doc-noteref">561</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Few could believe that Charles’s and Kate’s names had appeared in the Dutch edition unless written by Scobie. He had form though, previously saying he was thirty-three years old when he was thirty-eight.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-562" id="en0-562" role="doc-noteref">562</a></sup> At the beginning of December, the Dutch translators volunteered that they did not invent that content. The names had been in Scobie’s manuscript. Pertinently, the Sussexes refused to comment.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Omid is his own worst enemy,’ declared a senior editor at HarperCollins in New York. Renamed internally as ‘Endpapers’, the book was suddenly ‘problematic’. In telephone calls to his editors, Scobie complained, ‘Everyone in Britain hates me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-563" id="en0-563" role="doc-noteref">563</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Ten days after publication, Scobie surrendered. He admitted that ‘an early and uncleared text’ did contain the two names. The scrutiny, he complained, ‘has caused me a lot of frustration’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-564" id="en0-564" role="doc-noteref">564</a></sup> The author’s credibility was shredded.</p>
<p class="txt">Neither of the Sussexes denounced <em>Endgame.</em> Few believed their perfunctory denial of any involvement with Scobie’s book. Once again, it appeared to many that the Sussexes had crossed the line. The year that started with Harry’s book and ended with Scobie’s ended any speculation about reconciliation. <em>Endgame</em>, some believed, was the Sussexes’ last throw of the dice.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>