<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 29</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct29" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct29"><span id="page_262"/>CHAPTER 29</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Biggest Losers</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt"><em>The Hollywood Reporter</em> crowned the Sussexes the ‘Biggest Losers’ of 2023. In the aftermath of their ‘whiny’ Netflix documentary and Harry’s ‘whiny biography’, the <em>Reporter</em> chortled that everything had gone wrong. <em>Endgame</em> had sealed their fate. Scobie’s lies had fuelled a crisis of trust in the Sussexes’ brand: ‘The Harry and Meghan brand swelled into a sanctimonious bubble just bursting to be popped – and <em>South Park</em> was the pin.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-565" id="en0-565" role="doc-noteref">565</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ brand was confused between self-promotion, philanthropy and anti-Royalism. Associating with the Sussexes, more celebrities apparently agreed, was unwise. Seen as troublemakers, the Sussexes were denied an invitation to the Duke of Westminster’s wedding at Chester Cathedral, even though the bridegroom, Hugh Grosvenor, was a godfather to Archie. Harry was also excluded from <em>They Also Served</em>, Sandhurst’s guide to its two hundred most notable alumni. William wrote the book’s foreword.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-566" id="en0-566" role="doc-noteref">566</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The kickback damaged Archewell. Despite a glossy promotional video featuring the Sussexes hugging veterans, donating school bags and taking selfies with fans, the commentary citing Archewell’s ambition as an ‘impact-driven global non-profit organisation that puts compassion <span id="page_263"/>into action’ could not conceal a financial crisis. Donations to Archewell in 2022 had fallen from £10.3 million to £1.6 million, and that money was from only two unnamed donors. The corporation’s annual loss was £536,357 ($647,485). Just $950,000 in gifts had been spent: on a gender justice initiative ($200,000), flood relief in Nigeria ($20,000), the anti-landmine Halo Trust and a play space for children in Uvalde, Texas, after the school massacre. Archewell’s chief of staff James Holt, paid annually £180,835, halted further payments apart from $127,807 to the London-based publicists Herlihy Loughran for ‘programmatic strategic support’ and $120,000 to a digital consultant, Jiore Craig. Archewell’s purpose to ‘put compassion into action’ was falling flat.</p>
<p class="txt">There was improvement during 2023. Archewell raised $5.7 million – $5 million from Fidelity Charitable and $10,050 from Tisbet Philanthropy – but they handed out $1.3 million while bearing expenses of $1.9 million.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-567" id="en0-567" role="doc-noteref">567</a></sup> The grim news concealed the Sussexes’ generous sponsorship of one unknown charity, the Women’s Wellness Space in Philadelphia. A drop-in space for traumatised women created and managed by President Biden’s daughter Ashley, a 43-year-old social worker, the charity received $250,000 from Archewell, the highest donation the foundation made that year.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-568" id="en0-568" role="doc-noteref">568</a></sup> At what was described as a ‘developing endeavour rather than something that’s already set up’, the women were given a healthy meal, meditated and received therapy, specifically eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR) treatment. Sympathising with ‘trauma’, the Sussexes declared themselves ‘dedicated to illuminating thought-provoking and diverse narratives’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-569" id="en0-569" role="doc-noteref">569</a></sup> Archewell’s highest donation that year was brokered by the President’s sister, close confidante and campaign manager Valerie Biden Owens.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-570" id="en0-570" role="doc-noteref">570</a></sup> Shortly before making the donation, Biden Owens had ‘endorsed’ Meghan as a ‘good presidential candidate one day’.</p>
<p class="txt">Archewell’s donation also coincided with the Heritage Foundation’s renewed attempts to secure Harry’s visa application. ‘The Biden <span id="page_264"/>administration went to great lengths to prevent the release of Harry’s records,’ recalled the Foundation’s director, Nile Gardiner. He wondered whether the Prince and his wife had received ‘special treatment’ from the White House.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-571" id="en0-571" role="doc-noteref">571</a></sup> Gardiner’s opinion was reinforced by John Kerry, the unsuccessful Democratic presidential candidate in 2004 who had travelled with Jill Biden to Charles’s coronation. Kerry told Lady Anne Glenconner, ‘We all feel very, very sorry for Harry.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-572" id="en0-572" role="doc-noteref">572</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Suspicions about the Sussexes’ relationship with the Bidens were fuelled by Ashley Biden’s tax return. She registered the Women’s Wellness Space total income in 2023 as $170,296. Yet she had received $250,000 from Archewell and a further $250,000 from another charity supporting President Biden.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-573" id="en0-573" role="doc-noteref">573</a></sup> Ashley Biden had failed not only to declare the $500,000 but she also claimed that no donation had exceeded more than $5,000.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-574" id="en0-574" role="doc-noteref">574</a></sup> Grateful that President Biden’s office was blocking the release of Harry’s visa application, the Sussexes remained silent.</p>
<p class="txt">The mystery was compounded by Archewell’s own accounts. Although the charity claimed to have received just over $5 million, that year’s accounts showed income of only $2,000,911. Archewell would deny that it did not declare $3 million of income, but nor did it explain the discrepancy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-575" id="en0-575" role="doc-noteref">575</a></sup> The accounts and their donation to Ashley Biden reflected the Sussexes’ tangled lives.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Just before Christmas, Harry’s search for favourable publicity took another hit. Kensington Palace posted a video of Kate and her children meeting babies, and staged a photocall of Charles, Camilla, Kate and William at a glittering evening reception for five hundred diplomats in Buckingham Palace. Hours later, Archewell released an unremarkable promotional video of the Sussex family. The battle of the videos coincided with mixed results for Harry in London’s courts.</p>
<p class="txt">Just before Christmas, Harry could claim a victory but not an <span id="page_265"/>overwhelming triumph. In his case against the <em>Mirror,</em> Judge Fancourt declared there was ‘compelling evidence’ that all the newspapers’ editors including Piers Morgan ‘knew very well’ that phone hacking had been ‘widespread’ and ‘habitual’. The untraceable burner phones used by the private investigators hired by the <em>Mirror</em> explained the lack of records.</p>
<p class="txt">But, said the judge, Harry was the victim of phone hacking only ‘to a modest extent’. Nearly half of Harry’s claims (fifteen out of thirty-three) were dismissed. In the remainder, Fancourt decided that the journalists describing Harry’s thoughts and plans could only have discovered these facts by hacking Harry’s friends’ phones between 2002 and 2011.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-576" id="en0-576" role="doc-noteref">576</a></sup> The other articles Harry had cited relied either on standard journalistic reporting or were copied from other newspapers.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-577" id="en0-577" role="doc-noteref">577</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">For the <em>Mirror</em>, the principal question was the amount of damages. Green (representing the <em>Mirror</em>) had told the judge that Harry should receive no more than £50 on each confirmed ‘hack’. The damages should be ‘low’ because he hadn’t read the newspapers at the time of his relationship with Chelsy Davy. Sherborne countered that he should receive £570,000. The judge criticised Sherborne for pursuing ‘outlandish claims’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-578" id="en0-578" role="doc-noteref">578</a></sup> and, after meticulously calculating each confirmed allegation, awarded Harry £140,600. Since the lawyer reportedly expected to earn over £4 million for his work, the judge’s criticism was tolerable.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry hailed his victory as ‘a great day for truth: I’ve been told that slaying dragons will get you burned. But in light of today’s victory and the importance of doing what is needed for a free and honest press, it is a worthwhile price to pay. The mission continues.’ Especially against Piers Morgan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-579" id="en0-579" role="doc-noteref">579</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Prince Harry’s outrage at media intrusion into the private lives of the Royal Family,’ replied Morgan, ‘is only matched by his own ruthless, greedy and hypocritical enthusiasm for doing it himself.’ He continued: ‘He says he is on a mission to reform the media when it is clear that his real mission, along with his wife, is to destroy the British monarchy. <span id="page_266"/>I totally agree with Prince Harry that the ruthless intrusion into the private lives of the Royal Family for financial gain is utterly reprehensible. I just wish he’d stop doing it.’</p>
<p class="txt">In the wake of his victory, Sherborne announced Harry’s continuing fight against the <em>Mirror</em> on another 115 stories and a bid to recover £2 million for his legal costs.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-580" id="en0-580" role="doc-noteref">580</a></sup> But in the end, Harry climbed down. Offered a ‘substantial additional sum’ by the <em>Mirror</em>, the insurers pocketed a decent profit and settled Harry’s four-year battle. Harry’s ‘winnings’ were comparatively small. The <em>Mirror</em>’s lawyers were delighted by the outcome.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-581" id="en0-581" role="doc-noteref">581</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s lawyers were also thrilled that Harry had surrendered. Perhaps fearing the consequences of handing over sensitive documents to the newspaper, he immediately paid the newspaper £48,000, just part of the £750,000 in total costs. The newspaper welcomed Harry’s ‘embarrassing defeat’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-582" id="en0-582" role="doc-noteref">582</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">During those same weeks, a third team of Harry’s lawyers were engaged in another London courtroom. Those lawyers were still arguing that the Home Office should provide, at the taxpayers’ expense, armed protection for Harry and his family in Britain. To support his case, Harry declared in a statement: ‘The UK is my home. The UK is central to the heritage of my children and a place where I want them to feel at home.’ He made no attempt to reconcile that statement with his CBS interview – ‘I want to live in America’ – or telling NBC, ‘Home is the States.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-583" id="en0-583" role="doc-noteref">583</a></sup> <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-584" id="en0-584" role="doc-noteref">584</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry presented a new scenario for his case. He and Meghan had not fled from Britain because of the media’s intrusion into their privacy or the Royal Family’s racism, but rather because Buckingham Palace was unwilling to protect them from assassination. Murderers, Harry suggested, lurked everywhere.</p>
<p class="txt">In this battle, Harry’s hurdle was again a lack of evidence. Neither the intelligence services nor the police had found any credible threat to <span id="page_267"/>the Sussexes’ lives. Ravec’s chairman Richard Mottram’s reply to Harry’s protests was an assurance that with ‘finite public resources’, Ravec would examine the potential threats before each visit for a non-working royal who chose to leave Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-585" id="en0-585" role="doc-noteref">585</a></sup> That ‘bespoke’ arrangement still did not suit Harry. He wanted an unqualified, permanent commitment. To boost his argument, he turned again to the ‘catastrophic car chase’ in New York.</p>
<p class="txt">Disappointed that John Hart, the New York Police Department’s chief of intelligence, denied that the car chase had been a threat to his life and by the state’s refusal to prosecute the photographers, Harry called California’s Democrat governor, Gavin Newsom. The Prince asked for the photographers to be prosecuted in California. After that failed, he asked the governor to bring pressure on Manhattan’s lawyers to bring a charge. The enquiry from Newsom’s office astonished the Manhattan prosecutors. ‘Prince Harry was heavy-handed and super-privileged about what he thought we should do and the criminal process,’ observed New York’s senior prosecutor. ‘I don’t think it helped his case that he thought he could expedite a favourable outcome by going through the Californian jurisdiction. He didn’t understand the American legal system. But I get it. He’s royalty, so it might be second nature to act like that. The Prince was naïve. It just wasn’t an effective tactic.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-586" id="en0-586" role="doc-noteref">586</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s American lawyers scored one success. On 6th December, in the middle of yet another court hearing in London, Harry’s lawyers presented a second letter from John Hart. The intelligence chief’s description of the chase was identical to his original letter but he came to an opposite conclusion. Namely, that there was after all sufficient evidence to prosecute two photographers. ‘New evidence has come to light,’ Hart explained. There was sufficient grounds on which to arrest two ‘individuals’ for reckless endangerment.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-587" id="en0-587" role="doc-noteref">587</a></sup> Hart’s letter was dismissed as a ruse. He refused to disclose why he had somersaulted.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-588" id="en0-588" role="doc-noteref">588</a></sup> Many suspected that Newsom, under pressure from Harry and his lawyers, <span id="page_268"/>had after all influenced Hart. One year later, the governor would also publicly defend the Sussexes against allegations that Archewell had failed to properly file its annual returns.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-589" id="en0-589" role="doc-noteref">589</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To Harry’s surprise, nothing happened in New York. No photographers were prosecuted. In a letter to the New York district attorney, Harry accused the city’s prosecutors of ‘intentionally misleading’ him in pursuit of a ‘cover-up’. He won no converts. ‘Prince Harry was very overbearing,’ recalled a prosecutor.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-590" id="en0-590" role="doc-noteref">590</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The day after Hart’s letter was released in London, the government gave the trial judge the letter written after the Sandringham summit by Edward Young to Mark Sedwill, the Cabinet Secretary. Young stressed that the Sussexes’ safety was of ‘paramount importance to Her Majesty’. The letter demolished Harry’s complaint that Young was prejudiced against providing protection and, noticeably, Young did not mention Harry’s offer to pay for his security in Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-591" id="en0-591" role="doc-noteref">591</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In his judgement, Peter Lane rejected Harry’s case. Ravec’s ‘bespoke’ process, said the judge, was legally sound and their decision to deny Harry permanent protection was not made with any ‘irrationality or unlawfulness’.</p>
<p class="txt">As Harry had ‘comprehensively lost’ his case he was ordered to pay 90 per cent of the Home Office’s costs, £514,000. His own legal costs were about £1 million. He was not given the right to appeal.</p>
<p class="txt">In a burst of anger towards a judge who dared to reject his truth, Harry had ignored the judge’s direction that Ravec’s security memoranda were subject to the Official Secrets Act. He sent the secret reports used by Ravec to Johnny Mercer, a Conservative MP and an Afghan veteran.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-592" id="en0-592" role="doc-noteref">592</a></sup> In doing so, Harry showed that he felt he was beyond the law.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>