<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 30</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct30" role="heading"><span id="page_269"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct30">CHAPTER 30</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>A Living Legend</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Harry was now avidly searching for opportunities to present himself in the best light. Fortunately, the organisers of the Living Legend of Aviation award at Los Angeles’s Beverly Hilton on 19th January 2024 were looking for a publicity boost. Those casting the awards list approached Harry, hoping that Meghan would accompany him. To the organisers’ delight, Harry agreed to accept the award from John Travolta. The actor was famous for his shimmering performance during his White House dance with Diana in 1985. Harry’s father was photographed seething with jealousy as he watched his dazzling wife with the <em>Saturday Night Fever</em> heart-throb – ‘like a lemon’, wrote one observer.</p>
<p class="txt">Previous recipients of the award were Buzz Aldrin, the second astronaut to walk on the moon, and Captain Chesley Sullenberger, who in 2009 safely landed an Airbus with 155 passengers and crew on the Hudson River. Harry was listed on the night’s programme as a pilot in Afghanistan. In truth, Harry was an Apache helicopter’s gunner and a co-pilot. ‘He is not a living legend of aviation,’ scoffed Admiral Lord West, the former head of the Royal Navy after the announcement. ‘To suggest he is, is pathetic.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-593" id="en0-593" role="doc-noteref">593</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Another prizewinner that night would be Lauren Sanchez, the <span id="page_270"/>54-year-old partner of Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, then worth an estimated $130 billion. Sanchez won a prize for qualifying as a helicopter pilot. Nothing else, except her presence at the event also guaranteed media coverage.</p>
<p class="txt">Though her absence from the Living Legend award ceremony was excused with the usual formula – ‘caring for a sick child’ –<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-594" id="en0-594" role="doc-noteref">594</a></sup> Meghan’s decision not to join Harry at the $1,000-a-ticket event could be viewed as strategic. Self-made Lauren Sanchez lived not only in a $165 million Beverly Hills mansion but also in Bezos’s outstanding homes scattered across the country. Lauren also enjoyed Bezos’s fleet of mega-yachts and private jets, and she wore the most expensive dresses showing off her remarkable figure. Compared to Archewell’s meagre finances, the Bezos Earth Fund’s budget was $10 billion, and among their other charities the Bezos Award for Courage and Civility gave away $78 million a year. Even on her five-inch stilettos, Meghan would be dwarfed by Sanchez’s exuberance.</p>
<p class="txt">To the Sussexes’ dismay, they had not been included on the guest list for Jeff Bezos’s sixtieth birthday party four days later. As Meghan knew, many of her famous neighbours were invited, including Oprah Winfrey and Katy Perry. Other A-listers to receive invites included Beyoncé, Kim Kardashian, Jay-Z and Bill Gates. To Meghan’s disappointment, even with her duchess title, she was not included as one of them.</p>
<p class="txt">On the evening of the Living Legend awards, Lauren Sanchez posted a photo with Harry on her website. She hailed the two prizewinners for having ‘shaped the history and future of flight’. Harry also posed for pictures with Prince Mario-Max Schaumburg-Lippe, a local resident invited to add more royal glamour.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-595" id="en0-595" role="doc-noteref">595</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry played his part. Replying to Travolta’s recollection of the famous dance, Harry told the audience: ‘I was just one year old when you danced with my mum, as you’ve told everybody here, and continue to dine out on that probably every single night.’ In better humour, <span id="page_271"/>he mentioned that when his father took over the controls of a Westland helicopter, ‘I was terrified.’ Harry welcomed the laughter.</p>
<p class="txt">In his speech, he did not acknowledge the news that had captured the world’s attention earlier that day, which was the public announcement that both Charles and Kate had been admitted to the London Clinic. Both were having surgery – Charles for an enlarged prostate and 42-year-old Kate for ‘non-cancerous’ abdominal surgery.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-596" id="en0-596" role="doc-noteref">596</a></sup> No get well messages from the Sussexes had been sent. William noted his brother’s silence.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-597" id="en0-597" role="doc-noteref">597</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In fact, spotted leaving a fitness club earlier that day, Harry had maintained his silence.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-598" id="en0-598" role="doc-noteref">598</a></sup> His appearance in Montecito village appeared contrived. His home had its own gym. It appeared obvious to many that he had wanted to be seen.</p>
<p class="txt">Britain, Harry knew, was rocked by the news. Charles was vulnerable. Just months after the death of the Queen and Prince Philip, the King faced the chill of mortality. Having championed a slimmed-down monarchy, Charles knew that Buckingham Palace’s balcony would be disturbingly empty.</p>
<p class="txt">Four days after collecting his award from John Travolta, Harry ignored the Bezos snub and grabbed another opportunity to shine in the media headlines. Invited by Paramount’s chief executive Brian Robbins to the premiere in Jamaica of <em>One Love</em>, a Bob Marley biopic, the Sussexes arrived in a Gulfstream jet with Tracy Robbins, their neighbour in Montecito. They had celebrated their sixth wedding anniversary with the Robbins at Montecito’s Lucky’s Steakhouse, famous for its $175 Porterhouse steak. The Robbins had also not been invited to Bezos’s birthday bash.</p>
<p class="txt">Brian Robbins’ career was the sort of Hollywood success story Meghan was keen to emulate. He had started his career as an actor and had become a writer/director with a string of successful hits, including <em>PAW Patrol</em>. Then he was appointed as a studio chief.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I had to be here,’ Harry beamed as he stood on a stained red carpet in <span id="page_272"/>Kingston, Jamaica. Just as Charles and Kate were struggling in hospital, Harry and Meghan were thrilled to find the spotlight alongside one of the Royal Family’s bitter critics – Andrew Holness, the prime minister of Jamaica. Harry showed no concern that Holness had orchestrated a calculated embarrassment of his family and Britain on TV during William and Kate’s 2022 visit. On the contrary, Harry and Meghan flew to Jamaica knowing that Holness wanted to remove the King as Jamaica’s head of state.</p>
<p class="txt">Paramount’s publicists had rightly calculated that the film premiere in Kingston’s shabby Theatre 1 would be ignored without the Sussexes’ presence. Certainly, the after-party at the unexceptional Terra Nova All-Suite Hotel would have been overlooked if the royals had not sat in the VIP enclosure. Jamaicans, the publicists knew, had fond memories of Harry’s official visit in 2012 for the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee. The highlight was his friendly ‘race’ against Olympic champion sprinter Usain Bolt. Few were aware that Meghan’s short-lived first marriage had been celebrated during a four-day beach party in 2011 at the Jamaica Inn. All her guests had been given a pouch of cannabis. No photos existed of that celebration. Meghan had destroyed them all before she left the island.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-599" id="en0-599" role="doc-noteref">599</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The British High Commissioner, Judith Slater, heard by accident that the King’s son had landed in Jamaica the day before the premiere. The couple had stayed overnight in Montego Bay’s Half Moon Resort. Although invited to the film premiere, Slater kept her distance. Critics, she suspected, would pinpoint Harry’s ‘reckless misunderstanding of how his appearance was represented across the globe – an endorsement of pro-Marxist ideology’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-600" id="en0-600" role="doc-noteref">600</a></sup> After all, in a video for the Queen’s Commonwealth Trust in 2020, the couple had hailed Black Lives Matter as a ‘moment of reckoning’ for the guilty whites. They had also advised the Commonwealth to acknowledge its ‘uncomfortable’ past and warned that ‘change is needed and is coming’. After the <span id="page_273"/>Cambridges’ disastrous visit to Jamaica during her tenure, she decided to stay out of sight.</p>
<p class="txt">Standing alongside Holness and his wife Juliet, Meghan exuded Hollywood glamour. Dressed in a black shoulderless Carolina Herrera maxi skirt, her publicist briefed that she was carrying a Jimmy Choo black ‘J Box’ clutch and was wearing a Cartier Love bangle and $3,000 earrings by Californian designer Jennifer Meyer. But other than the sun, little shone in that unglamorous town. Except gossip about the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">Weeks earlier, Meghan’s publicist had told <em>US Weekly</em> that 2024 would be Meghan’s ‘year of redemption’ and her year of ‘revival’. But until the announcement of her new ‘slate’, said their spokeswoman, the Sussexes would keep a low profile.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-601" id="en0-601" role="doc-noteref">601</a></sup> Now was the comeback.</p>
<p class="txt">Newspapers hired body analysts to judge the state of the Sussexes’ marriage. Meghan defied them. As usual, her ‘purring rituals with her soft doe-eye-smile’ put on a show of ‘mutual affection’. With her hands of ‘loving ownership’ all over Harry, the message was ‘he’s mine’. By ‘placing a hand on his back to usher him forward in steering gestures, she put herself in charge’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-602" id="en0-602" role="doc-noteref">602</a></sup> As a bid for publicity the visit was a success.</p>
<p class="txt">After their return to California on Paramount’s Bombardier jet, the news was familiar. Another Archewell employee, Bennett Levine, a TV production manager, had resigned. The departure of the fifth executive to leave in recent months signalled an unfortunate fact: the Sussexes’ ‘slate’ was uninteresting, the atmosphere in Montecito was uncomfortable and the Sussexes were being widely mocked.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-603" id="en0-603" role="doc-noteref">603</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">At the Golden Globes in Los Angeles, Netflix’s chief Ted Sandaros was asked by the host Jo Koy why Harry and Meghan had pocketed ‘millions of dollars for doing absolutely nothing’. Meghan’s normally loquacious neighbour just smiled. He could do without the embarrassment. The American Riviera Orchard and polo series were on the horizon. The Sussexes were excited, but they were also scrabbling.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan decided once again to rebrand Archewell. Three years earlier, <span id="page_274"/>on the Palace’s orders, they had closed the ‘Sussexroyal’ website and promoted Archewell. That compromise no longer suited Meghan. In her latest makeover, the commercial website was reopened and headed ‘The Office of Prince Harry and Meghan. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex.’ At the top of the Sussex.com website was the coat of arms given to Meghan by the Queen after her marriage. Harry and Meghan knew that using their royal titles for financial gain broke the Sandringham agreement with the Queen. But trading as a royal had become irresistible.</p>
<p class="txt">On the rebranded website Meghan identified herself as ‘One of the most influential women in the world’. In the colossal scale of her self-esteem, Meghan genuinely believed in her own importance as a ‘feminist and champion of human rights and gender equality’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-604" id="en0-604" role="doc-noteref">604</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The new website described Harry as a ‘humanitarian, military veteran, mental health advocate and environmental campaigner’. His adult life, the bio continued, was ‘dedicated to advancing causes that he was passionate about and that advance permanent change for people and places’. Archewell’s mission statement was explicit: ‘Shaping the future through business and philanthropy’. Quite explicitly, Archewell was positioned not as a charity but as a business to promote the Sussexes.</p>
<p class="txt">In anticipation of the relaunch, Archewell churned out press statements about children’s wellbeing and child abuse on the internet. ‘Turn pain into purpose,’ urged Harry. Meghan could not resist personalising her sound bite. ‘Days are long but years are short,’ she reminisced about her rush to Uvalde, Texas, after a school shooting. Both Sussexes used grief as empowerment to speak with heavy hearts.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-605" id="en0-605" role="doc-noteref">605</a></sup> Few remembered that on the day Meghan dashed to Uvalde, she chose not to drive three hours to see her father, Thomas, stricken by a stroke.</p>
<p class="txt">Back in Britain, there was more bad news on the horizon.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>