<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 31</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct31" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct31"><span id="page_275"/>CHAPTER 31</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Bad Optics</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Just as Archewell was pumping out its mission statements, on 5th February, Harry read online that King Charles’s prostate problems had revealed the ‘early’ stages of cancer. Doctors said that his prognosis was ‘positive’. While refusing to define the type of cancer, Charles stopped all his public duties. He would live in Sandringham and travel to London for weekly treatment. Under the revised Regency Act, Prince Edward and Princess Anne could act on Charles’s behalf. Harry had been excluded.</p>
<p class="txt">Charles’s friends reported that the King took the news badly. Fearful of his mortality, he had plunged into depression and, his few visitors noticed, became surprisingly frail. ‘This is awful,’ Charles heard a courtier exclaim. The apprehension was not only about the King’s cancer but the threat of an early death. William, some officials agreed, was not ready to become the monarch.</p>
<p class="txt">Among senior courtiers, several were concerned that the 42-year-old heir did not yet fully understand the monarchy’s traditions, symbolism and history. They questioned whether William would be equipped to keep the institution well anchored in a country losing its cultural identity. ‘William’s still too fluid,’ said a courtier. A strong monarch was required to manage any necessary changes without bowing to gusts <span id="page_276"/>of destabilising opinions. Some were particularly alarmed by William’s suggestion after the coronation that his own ceremony would be shorter and with fewer symbolic rituals. Compared to Charles, William’s grasp of the detailed aspects of a coronation’s historic roots was judged to be flimsy. History, as William admitted, was not his strength. Andrew Gailey, chosen, as a noted historian, to be William’s housemaster at Eton, had failed to excite the heir about his inheritance.</p>
<p class="txt">Insiders fretted about the absence in Buckingham Palace of any authoritative veteran to persuade William to study the nation’s history. Former wise men including Martin Charteris, David Ogilvy (the 13th Earl of Airlie) and Christopher Geidt had learned how to guide the monarch to regard the Crown as an immortal institution and not merely a group of personalities. Their wisdom had not been replaced. The successors were loyal but not weighty. None of them could convince William that while living in Adelaide Cottage suited his priority for family life, his relaxed lifestyle was not appropriate for a future monarch. ‘He’s a school-run father rather than the next King,’ complained an insider. One advisor even muttered, ‘Hanoverians make good constitutional monarchs because they’re so stupid.’</p>
<p class="txt">Hours after hearing the news about the King’s cancer, Harry telephoned his father. Charles agreed to meet his son in London but only briefly. Rushing for that night’s flight, Harry landed at Heathrow shortly after 3pm.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-606" id="en0-606" role="doc-noteref">606</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Charles’s helicopter was waiting in Buckingham Palace’s garden as Harry entered Clarence House to meet his father for the first time since the Queen’s funeral, seventeen months earlier. In Camilla’s opinion, Charles needed to prevent his hot-tempered son from veering off into a debate or recrimination. There could be no repeat of the ugly confrontation after Philip’s funeral in Windsor. Mindful of King Lear, Charles knew by heart the lament, ‘How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless child.’</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_277"/>Fearing nothing would remain private, Charles did not specify the type of cancer or the gravity of the prognosis. Some Palace insiders wondered whether Harry would offer an apology for the litany of his hurtful accusations and seek reconciliation. Neither Charles nor Camilla would be surprised by Harry’s refusal to back down. Rather than arriving for reconciliation, other officials assumed that Harry came with an agenda to obtain the King’s surrender on armed protection, money and status, perhaps also assuming that Charles’s illness would soften him. Having set the tone, Charles ignored Harry’s offer to ‘gladly step up’ to any royal duties. By now, it would have been hard for anyone to trust Harry. Even though the monarchy looked depleted – the senior working royals were over seventy – Charles would not dare to defy William’s veto on Harry. Even if William looked exhausted at a recent investiture, his fury about Harry’s ‘treachery’ was unabated. Openly, he condemned his brother: ‘He’s an embarrassment.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-607" id="en0-607" role="doc-noteref">607</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After only thirty minutes, the King signalled that the meeting was over. While Harry was escorted out, the King and Queen were driven across to Buckingham Palace. Ten minutes later, their helicopter took off for Sandringham. Harry stayed the night in a hotel and took the first flight back to California.</p>
<p class="txt">Those puzzled by Harry’s 10,000-mile round trip wondered whether it signalled a genuine desire for reconciliation. Hours after landing in Los Angeles, Harry’s reappearance offered one explanation. That same night in Las Vegas, he presented the ‘Man of the Year’ award for the Confederation of European Paper Industries. Paid $200,000, Harry joined the celebration of the organisers’ success in recycling paper. For the audience, the news from London about the King was a reminder of Harry’s status. After a thirty-second speech mocking American football for stealing rugby, Harry handed the prize to Cameron Heyward of the Pittsburgh Steelers. ‘I’m in shock. That’s Prince Harry!’ exclaimed the football star.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-608" id="en0-608" role="doc-noteref">608</a></sup> After this gig, some were less puzzled by Harry’s <span id="page_278"/>transatlantic dash, not least because he failed to appear at the following day’s Super Bowl.</p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Sun</em> posed that same question one week later. ‘Was Harry’s trip,’ asked the newspaper, ‘done to be used in a TV programme?’ Was the thirty-minute meeting just a showcase? Did he need material for a TV interview?<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-609" id="en0-609" role="doc-noteref">609</a></sup> That possibility arose as Harry appeared on ABC’s <em>Good Morning</em> programme. Asked about his father and his flight to London, Harry replied: ‘I love my family. I think any illness, any sickness, brings families together. I can always get on a plane to see them.’</p>
<p class="txt">Buckingham Palace rejected the olive branch. On the Palace’s website, the Sussexes were downgraded. Their previously prominent separate biographies – the extent of Harry’s was 2,700 words and Meghan’s 1,300 words – were now summarised in 500 words at the bottom of the page alongside Prince Andrew’s. In retaliation for the Sussexes’ new website, they were labelled as non-working royals.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-610" id="en0-610" role="doc-noteref">610</a></sup> Open warfare had erupted again between the Sussexes and the Palace<strong>.</strong></p>
<p class="txt">Two weeks later, Harry didn’t appear at a ceremony in London to honour Diana. Instead, he and Meghan flew once again in a private Bombardier jet to Vancouver for a three-day inspection of the preparations for the 2025 Invictus Games. Meghan promoted her new Netflix series on the journey. Harry’s reconciliation agenda was pushed by his spokeswoman, but critical headlines in Britain aroused the response: ‘The Sussexes will not be broken. They’re still here.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-611" id="en0-611" role="doc-noteref">611</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Invictus Games was still the anchor of Harry’s professional profile. Beyond that, he was adrift. Increasingly, the isolation from Britain and his family eroded his purpose. Life in Montecito was solitary, the same friendless routine broken by an occasional game of polo. Netflix’s polo series would be formally announced in mid-April.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-612" id="en0-612" role="doc-noteref">612</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Concern for his father’s health was a good reason to call the Palace, but Harry was always told that the king was ‘unavailable’. The doctors had stepped in. The King, they decided, was too weak to cope with the <span id="page_279"/>risk of confrontation. Charles had to be shielded from any outburst from his son. Inevitably, Harry railed at being blocked. And then another cloud appeared.</p>
<p class="txt">Two years earlier, in reply to Harry’s damning criticism of Donald Trump, the presidential candidate had ridiculed Meghan: ‘Harry is whipped like no person I think I’ve ever seen. I’m not a fan of Meghan. I think poor Harry is being led around by the nose. It’ll end and it’ll end bad.’ Meghan’s sanctimonious Californian attitudes irritated Trump: ‘I want to know what’s going to happen when Harry decides he’s had enough of being bossed around. You know, I think Harry’s been led down a path.’</p>
<p class="txt">Now, with the real prospect of Trump’s re-election, his son Eric had described the Sussexes as ‘spoiled apples’, adding that ‘the Brits can happily have those two.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-613" id="en0-613" role="doc-noteref">613</a></sup> Trump himself also denounced the Prince. The Royal Family, he told an interviewer, had been ‘too gracious’ towards Harry, not least because he had ‘betrayed’ the Queen. ‘If he lied,’ he said about Harry’s visa application, ‘they’ll have to take appropriate action.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-614" id="en0-614" role="doc-noteref">614</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Reform UK party leader Nigel Farage asked his friend if, as president, he would continue Biden’s protection. Trump said not. There would be no special privileges. He continued to talk about the consequences for Harry’s disloyalty towards the Queen which ‘broke her heart. I won’t protect him. He betrayed the Queen. That’s unforgiveable. He would be on his own.’ But he would not commit himself to deportation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-615" id="en0-615" role="doc-noteref">615</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Asked during an ABC TV interview if he would become an American citizen, Harry replied: ‘I have considered it but it’s not a high priority for me right now.’ By law, if he pledged allegiance to another country, he would have to give up his titles.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-616" id="en0-616" role="doc-noteref">616</a></sup> Aggravating the question was the prospect of Trump’s election victory in November. President Biden was all that protected Harry from the Heritage Foundation’s repeated attempts to force the release of Harry’s visa application.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-617" id="en0-617" role="doc-noteref">617</a></sup> Likely fearful <span id="page_280"/>that Trump would defeat the 81-year-old president, Meghan remained uncharacteristically silent during the election campaign. Ignored by the Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris, her political ambitions had run into the sand. Meghan pointedly said that she was remaining ‘non-partisan’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-618" id="en0-618" role="doc-noteref">618</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">At the end of February 2024, the whole family was due to gather in Windsor for the memorial service of King Constantine of Greece, who had died a year earlier. But instead of a show of confidence, the image of the mourners walking down the hill to St George’s Chapel reflected a new crisis. William was marked to lead the family that day. At the last moment he was absent without explanation on a ‘personal matter’. Kate, it later transpired, had just been diagnosed with cancer. William stayed at home.</p>
<p class="txt">On the drive to Windsor from London, the Royal Family heard that Tom Kingston, the husband of Prince Michael’s daughter Ella, had shot himself. His company had been mired in debt. As the family gathered its thoughts for the walk down to St George’s Chapel, Prince Andrew and his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson pushed themselves to the front of the procession. Behind them stood Princess Anne and Queen Camilla. The image of the two disgraced royals outside the chapel glad-handing the clergyman for the cameras while the procession waited provoked media speculation about the monarchy’s vulnerability. The Palace had seemingly failed to manage a crisis.</p>
<p class="txt">Two weeks later, the monarchy’s frailty was compounded. The King’s illness prevented his presence at the Commonwealth Day service at Westminster Abbey. To reassure those worried about her own absence owing to her still unannounced cancer, Kate’s office posted a Mother’s Day photo of herself and the three children. Within hours, a photo agency spotted that the image had been photoshopped. In the uproar, <span id="page_281"/>the photo was ‘killed’ – withdrawn by agencies from further distribution.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-619" id="en0-619" role="doc-noteref">619</a></sup> Rumours erupted across the world: Kate was accused of orchestrating a cover-up of her illness, William was damned as guilty of adultery and the King was said to have altered the succession. Kate’s Kensington Palace advisors had lost control of the narrative.</p>
<p class="txt">Fuelling the controversy, Meghan’s spokeswoman volunteered that the Duchess would never edit a photo: ‘She would have been annihilated.’ The reality was that in 2021, Misan Harriman <em>had</em> produced a Valentine’s Day photo showing the pregnant Meghan in a field near Montecito, shot remotely from London. He had digitally added an olive tree. ‘It’s amazing what you can do with technology,’ Harriman said at the time.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-620" id="en0-620" role="doc-noteref">620</a></sup> Harry had similarly benefited from digital editing. His face on the cover of <em>Spare</em> had been ‘touched up’. Hair had been added to conceal his growing baldness and his skin was darkened.</p>
<p class="txt">Days later that admission was explained as poor experimentation with editing, and swiftly followed by a video, posted by Kate, revealing that she had cancer. Instead of attracting unqualified sympathy, Kate was met with more derision.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-621" id="en0-621" role="doc-noteref">621</a></sup> Among Meghan’s passionate supporters was the influencer Christopher Bouzy, a black American tech entrepreneur. In January, after the first announcement of Kate’s illness, Bouzy had posted on his social media a gymnast doing backflips captioned ‘Kate Middleton this weekend’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-622" id="en0-622" role="doc-noteref">622</a></sup> Bouzy also labelled Kate as ageing as fast as a banana despite using plastic surgery, claimed she was the victim of domestic abuse and said she had used a body double for an ‘appearance’ with William at a farm shop.And, added Bouzy, Kate was divorcing William. Hours after Kate’s disclosure of cancer, Bouzy posted a message that Kate’s video was fake. This was followed by an American doctor saying the Palace’s press release about her illness ‘doesn’t make a lot of medical sense’.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan appeared soon after on CBS’s <em>News Sunday</em>. Once again, she spoke about teetering on the edge of suicide in Kensington Palace. <span id="page_282"/>To re-energise her continuing battle with the Royal Family, she threatened, ‘I’ve really scraped the surface on my experience.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-623" id="en0-623" role="doc-noteref">623</a></sup> She didn’t mention Kate.</p>
<p class="txt">Days after Kate’s video ‘misadventure’, Meghan spoke again on International Women’s Day. At a convention in Austin, Texas, she criticised without any hint of irony female media executives for allowing online bullying. ‘It’s not catty, it’s cruel,’ she said about the abuse she received from trolls while she was pregnant. ‘What I find the most disturbing is how much of the hate is women completely spewing that to other women. I cannot make sense of that.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-624" id="en0-624" role="doc-noteref">624</a></sup> The ‘champion’ of humanitarianism and feminism overlooked the abuse she had directed at Kate in her broadcast interviews and through Omid Scobie and Harry himself.</p>
<p class="txt">Bafflingly, damaging Kate’s reputation appeared to be part of the latest move from the Sussexes. The other was to improve their own popularity. Worried about her own image, Meghan appointed Charlie Gipson, a British publicist, to represent her in London. Gipson started by picking up the pieces.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-625" id="en0-625" role="doc-noteref">625</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Belatedly, Harry sent a message of support to his sister-in-law: ‘We wish health and healing for Kate and her family and hope they are able to do so privately and in peace.’ <em>People</em> magazine published that Harry has ‘privately reached out to William and Kate’. Since the Sussexes told <em>People</em> about their message it was hardly ‘private’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-626" id="en0-626" role="doc-noteref">626</a></sup> Contradictions were frequently apparent in the Sussexes’ battle for success – and survival.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>