<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 32</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct32" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct32"><span id="page_283"/>CHAPTER 32</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Brand</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Nothing was ready but Meghan couldn’t wait. Ever since the trip to Canouan, she had been planning her new Netflix series, to be titled <em>With Love, Meghan</em>. There was every reason to feel excited. Her dream of being a self-made star was about to come true. The Netflix series would show the real Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">Netflix’s head of content, Bela Bajaria, had bought her lifestyle show. Taking advantage of her global fame, Meghan was certain to attract viewers. Whether those viewers were fascinated or outraged didn’t matter to the streamer. In Meghan’s pitch, as the hostess in her Montecito house, she would be combining the roles of homemaker, gardener, crafter, cook, mother and, above all, entrepreneur and female founder. Unlike Martha Stewart, Gwyneth Paltrow and other TV lifestyle hosts in the crowded market, she would present herself as more than a domestic goddess. ‘At its conception,’ she later explained, ‘I had thought about the interest that people seem to have in my fashion – what I would wear.’ Her criteria were ‘things that present beautifully but don’t break the bank’. Or ‘high-low’, as she described it – good-looking but not expensive.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-627" id="en0-627" role="doc-noteref">627</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Her brand, she told Omid Scobie, would be ‘something more accessible’ than Gwyneth Paltrow’s Goop.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-628" id="en0-628" role="doc-noteref">628</a></sup> ‘Something rooted in my <span id="page_284"/>love of details, curating, hosting, life’s simple pleasures and family.’ She was aiming, she said, at ‘creating something safe and timeless. And something that won’t be accused of riding on the back of anything royal.’ Her public commitment to curtail her royalty was intended as a signpost of sincerity.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan spoke about launching her own business by offering tips that illustrated her philosophy as an authentic, glamorous and inspirational feminist.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-629" id="en0-629" role="doc-noteref">629</a></sup> In conversations with Netflix, she excluded resurrecting The Tig or restoring herself as an influencer. She classed herself as an entrepreneur. ‘Women,’ she said, ‘don’t need to be afraid to talk about finance. And I think the more financial literacy we have, the stronger we’re going to be.’ Finance and business, Meghan ought to have known, was no longer a challenge for women. Females were the chief executives of the world’s biggest corporations including Glaxo, Diageo, General Motors and Accenture. Plus pharma businesses, media conglomerates and hospitality chains. The real challenge for Meghan was that to create a business, she needed products and partners in design, manufacturing and distribution, and a financial backer.</p>
<p class="txt">Those hurdles were put to one side while Netflix’s executives concluded that, while Archewell was named as the series’ producer, Meghan would need help.To tilt the chances in her favour, two producers employed by Sony for Selena Gomez’s cookery show were hired. Known as ‘The Kings of Reality TV’, they had produced over a hundred shows. The director, Michael Steed, was an experienced Netflix loyalist. As usual, the seventy-plus crew and staff were carefully vetted. Before they were approached, their social media was checked for any antagonism towards the Sussexes. Then each was interviewed without disclosing the project. Meghan hoped that questions would expose any lurking disloyalty. Finally, if they were acceptable, Meghan required that each sign a binding NDA.</p>
<p class="txt">As in all productions, the technicians could only work with the <span id="page_285"/>material they were given. ‘At the beginning,’ Meghan said, ‘I just liked making jam. All I liked to do was just make jam and preserves.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-630" id="en0-630" role="doc-noteref">630</a></sup> She needed more products for her Netflix series though. With a love for good food, she had toured restaurants across the world with her first husband, looking for new culinary experiences. But she could not cook. Her limit was roast chicken and hamburgers. It wasn’t just Italians who would be baffled by her recipe for cooking spaghetti – the uncooked pasta was laid on top of vegetables in a frying pan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-631" id="en0-631" role="doc-noteref">631</a></sup> Even the two pizza ovens in her garden were not used.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-632" id="en0-632" role="doc-noteref">632</a></sup> Her producers persuaded Meghan to avoid suggesting she was a skilled chef.</p>
<p class="txt">She agreed that instead, professional chefs would appear in the series as guests in her kitchen. Scouring the internet, she found recipes for cakes, and ways to present vegetables and fruit artistically on platters and in bowls. Without any original recipes she could focus on the appearance of food rather than the taste. Meghan even praised a Chinese takeaway for being placed ‘beautifully’ on a dish. Her guests could praise her delicious ‘cooking’, even though it was delivered by a restaurant, because feeding friends was ‘probably my love language’.</p>
<p class="txt">Hampered by Meghan’s indecision, filming the series was delayed. Ideas and scripts were not forthcoming and Meghan had failed to appoint a chief executive of Mama Knows Best, her Delaware-registered company that sold her jams, cutlery, nut butters, dog beds, bird feeders, blankets, spices and dishes. No one suitable, it appeared, wanted the job. Fearful of the vacuum, she planned to announce her brand, American Riviera Orchard, prematurely.</p>
<p class="txt">Eventually, as filming started in a Montecito house rented by Netflix from her neighbours Tom and Sherrie Cipolla, Meghan appeared to be confused about the identity she was projecting. Was she Meghan Markle, or the wife of a British prince, or the Duchess of Sussex, or a self-made feminist or a standard American mom? During 2025 all her favoured magazines including <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em>, <em>People</em> and <em>Time</em> continued to <span id="page_286"/>name her Meghan Markle. Whatever her title, she presented herself during the filming as a traditional housewife and mother.</p>
<p class="txt">To establish American Riviera Orchard, she arranged to produce fifty jars of strawberry jam, supposedly all made from her own crop in her kitchen. According to the best jam manufacturers, she would have needed at least 100lbs of strawberries. Her garden’s strawberry beds did not appear big enough to produce over one thousand strawberries. Since her jam proved to be unusually liquid and contained few berries, it is just possible that the fruit was grown by Meghan in Montecito. But she refused to volunteer the truth. Even the manufacturer of the distinctive glass jars refused to be identified.</p>
<p class="txt">One week before the trailer for American Riviera Orchard was streamed, the fifty jars were distributed among Meghan’s celebrity friends and contacts including Tracy Robbins, Kris Jenner, Mindy Kaling, model Chrissy Teigen, former <em>Suits</em> actor Abigail Spencer and wife of Nacho Figueras, Delfina Blaquier and Meghan’s friend Kelly McKee Zajfen, a co-founder of a mothers’ organisation. All were asked to praise the jam on social media – along with a snippet of gossip scripted if necessary by Meghan’s publicists. Spencer performed the best. Lying on the grass with a pot of jam in a hamper of lemons and white flowers, Spencer intoned, ‘This jam is my jam. A delicious taste of what’s to come. Love you so much M.’ Simultaneously, Meghan posted a short video of herself on Instagram.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-633" id="en0-633" role="doc-noteref">633</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The gender-equality campaigner was shown posing in the kitchen wearing a white tank top and then a black ballgown doing a range of domestic tasks – arranging hydrangeas, whisking in a bowl, pouring a drizzle of olive oil on to hummus and placing a shrimp on a grilled lettuce leaf, all to the background soundtrack of American jazz singer Nancy Wilson’s 1960 hit ‘I Wish You Love’. Offering viewers ‘some little tips and tricks’, Meghan made a ‘Ladybug’-themed appetiser. The caption, produced by a committee of scriptwriters – ‘Everybody’s <span id="page_287"/>invited to create wonder in every moment’ – was overlaid with Meghan’s voice urging viewers to ‘celebrate the joys of cooking and gardening and entertaining and friendship’. The publicists promoted the Duchess as living the American Dream, ‘telling her life through her recipes’.</p>
<p class="txt">Considering that filming of the Netflix series would not be completed until July, three months later, the rushed and premature launch of social media trailers advertising American Riviera Orchard on 14th March was puzzling, until an unsurprising coincidence arose. That same night, at 6.30pm in London, William arrived at London’s Science Museum to greet twenty international winners of the twenty-fifth Diana Legacy Awards. Merely three hours after the London ceremony, Archewell announced its $100,000 civil rights awards.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-634" id="en0-634" role="doc-noteref">634</a></sup> In between, just as William walked on to the stage, Meghan trailed herself as a lifestyle celebrity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-635" id="en0-635" role="doc-noteref">635</a></sup> Her debut drew mixed reactions.</p>
<p class="txt">Comments about her celebrity jam were combined with questions why a Californian mother living in a house with nine bedrooms and fourteen bathrooms rented a nearby farm growing cannabis rather than grapes and avocados. And why did she cook in £600 pans sitting on a £15,000 cooker? <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-636" id="en0-636" role="doc-noteref">636</a></sup> Eyewitnesses in her home saw Meghan curl up in horror about the trolls – but not on camera. And as always Meghan’s response was to reappear smiling, undaunted and regal.</p>
<p class="txt">Hectic telephone calls persuaded Netflix to bring forward the announcement of the Sussexes’ two new TV series – Meghan’s cookery shows and Harry’s polo extravaganza – to 14th April. While Meghan’s series celebrated ‘joys’, Harry’s polo programmes still lacked a catchy one-liner.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-637" id="en0-637" role="doc-noteref">637</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Looking for an opportunity to highlight the announcement, Meghan chose Harry’s appearance on 12th April at Sentebale’s Royal Salute Polo Challenge charity match in Palm Beach, Florida. In January, she had refused Sophie Chandauka’s invitation to the match saying she had a previous engagement. Now, with less than twenty-<span id="page_288"/>four hours’ notice, Harry announced that Meghan would, after all, be coming. Both Harry and Meghan were aware that Sentebale was beset by problems. And Harry knew that Meghan’s sudden decision was certain to exacerbate the charity’s difficulties.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Back in January 2024, Harry had declared that he no longer would be Sentebale’s ‘funder of last resort’. The charity, he told Chandauka, was ‘an albatross’. It was no longer ‘working for me’, he said. If only the Lesotho or British government would take over, he said, he could concentrate on Archewell’s activities. Harry wanted to hasten Chandauka’s plan to move its headquarters to South Africa, instantly fire the chief executive Richard Miller and find new donors in America. ‘You can’t just shoot off,’ Chandauka told Harry. ‘Employees have rights and our image would suffer if we fired Miller.’ Harry was shocked, seeing Chandauka’s challenge to his control as unacceptable. A showdown was averted after Miller agreed to resign within weeks.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-638" id="en0-638" role="doc-noteref">638</a></sup> Chandauka planned to replace him temporarily with an experienced development professional, Carmel Gaillard. Harry backed down.</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka was faced with another hurdle, though. Trustees Mark Dyer and Damian West – Harry’s two wingmen on Sentebale’s board: Dyer, a former army officer and long-time confidant, and Damian West, an investor in African mining – as usual, supported the Prince. ‘You won’t change anything unless you get rid of Mark Dyer and Damian West,’ had been Hornby’s last advice to Chandauka before he left the charity the year before. ‘Harry doesn’t tolerate “No”.’ The trio controlled the charity’s board of trustees. Fortunately, they all agreed to Chandauka’s planned ‘Return to South Africa’.</p>
<p class="txt">On 5th March 2024, Harry declared his full support for Chandauka’s new vision. All eyes were focused on the forthcoming polo match in Florida. Chandauka had spoken about raising $1 million ‘hopefully <span id="page_289"/>in the bank’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-639" id="en0-639" role="doc-noteref">639</a></sup> But there was a new problem. Harry had decided that the match should be filmed for his Netflix series. The game’s host, the Santa Clara Polo Club near West Palm Beach, refused to allow the switch from a charity game to a commercial venture on their pitch. Fortunately, Harry’s friend Marc Ganzi, a Florida billionaire businessman and the owner of a neighbouring polo club in Wellington, agreed to host the game. Despite the move costing £100,000, Harry demanded the change of venue. ‘I’ll make it up to you,’ Harry told Andrew ‘Tucks’ Tucker, the global organiser of polo matches. All the income, Marc Ganzi agreed, would be donated to Sentebale. Rich players paid up to $100,000 to the charity to participate in the game with Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-640" id="en0-640" role="doc-noteref">640</a></sup> Then, on Harry’s orders, for ‘security reasons’, the number of spectators at Wellington was drastically limited. That reduced the potential number of donors and Chandauka would complain that Harry never paid the £100,000. Tucker’s irritation soared.</p>
<p class="txt">First, Tucker objected to the additional work changing the venue. Secondly, he wanted nothing to do with Netflix. But worst of all, he was incandescent that Meghan was coming. He knew the sponsors and some players would object to her presence. Some might even stay away. Meghan also jeopardised his relationship with Prince William, another of Tucker’s clients. But Harry expected Tucker to ‘fall into line’.</p>
<p class="txt">After arriving from Santa Barbara on Marc Ganzi’s Bombardier jet, Harry faced Tucker’s anger. Harry’s behaviour, the organiser decided, was intolerable. After the match, he would resign. Capable of being politic when required, Harry concealed his own irritation towards Chandauka at the pre-match dinner for potential donors at the Zaytinya restaurant in Miami Beach. Fluently, Chandauka presented Sentebale’s new mission to move the charity’s headquarters to South Africa and, performing at his best, Harry eloquently endorsed the new journey.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-641" id="en0-641" role="doc-noteref">641</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In good spirits, Chandauka met Harry the following afternoon at the Wellington ground. Harry was nervous. More so after Meghan and <span id="page_290"/>her entourage arrived. Dressed extravagantly in an ivory silk and hemp Heidi Merrick pleated dress with a halterneck top and cut-out at the waist, carrying a Valentino purse and walking on five-inch Aquazzura heels across the turf, Meghan was accompanied by tennis champion Serena Williams, who lived nearby.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Hi,’ Meghan greeted Chandauka, then turned her back, heading with Williams to a marquee. ‘Champagne,’ she ordered, pointedly ignoring the long-standing sponsor’s drink, Royal Salute World Polo whisky. ‘And I want an ice bucket.’ No ice bucket was available. ‘Buy one,’ Meghan’s publicist ordered. At once the mood changed. Meghan’s staff barked their imperious demands and Sentebale’s events manager stood paralysed. Tears began to flow. ‘You heard,’ snapped a Meghan staffer. The manager withdrew. Unwilling to confront Meghan she was told to buy an ice bucket instantly. Back in the tent, Meghan refused Chandauka’s invitation to mingle with the event’s supporters.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s team won the match. As usual, the winner would be presented with a cup.Sophie Chandauka stood on the small platform expecting to perform the honours. But Netflix’s director vetoed that scenario. Suddenly, Meghan appeared. Putting herself next to Harry, Meghan told Chandauka to move down the line, out of the picture. Harry looked puzzled. After Meghan’s repeat of the order, Chandauka understood. Ducking inelegantly underneath the arms holding the trophy and trying not to fall off the small stage, she moved away from Harry. Throughout, Meghan’s smile never faltered. Then, bursting with theatrical laughter, she presented Harry with the cup – and a kiss. Chandauka was cut out of the shot.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-642" id="en0-642" role="doc-noteref">642</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan then headed to her $8,000 suite at the nearby Four Seasons hotel. The organisers were told that she would not be going to that evening’s dinner at the Santa Rita Polo Farm.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-643" id="en0-643" role="doc-noteref">643</a></sup> <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-644" id="en0-644" role="doc-noteref">644</a></sup> Harry persuaded her to change her decision. She did appear but the atmosphere in the room was strained – especially after the seating arrangements had to<span id="page_291"/> be changed to accommodate her.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-645" id="en0-645" role="doc-noteref">645</a></sup> Chandauka was clearly irritated and Harry’s discomfort grew after Sentebale’s director in Lesotho, Ntoli Moletsane, told him that the charity was losing direction and had funding problems.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-646" id="en0-646" role="doc-noteref">646</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The following day, the kickback started. Video footage of the awkward dance on the podium to move Chandauka away from Harry appeared on the <em>Miami Herald</em>’s website. Hundreds of critical comments were directed at Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-647" id="en0-647" role="doc-noteref">647</a></sup> Her publicists were alarmed. Meghan was horrified. To deflect criticism from her, Harry ordered Ashley Hansen to call Chandauka. ‘We want you to issue a statement to rebut the trolls,’ said Hansen. Chandauka was to say that she was not pushed aside by the Duchess. Hansen’s tone, Chandauka recalled, was ‘unpleasant’ and ‘imperious’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-648" id="en0-648" role="doc-noteref">648</a></sup> Chandauka refused. ‘We cannot be an extension of the Sussexes’ PR machine,’ she replied. ‘I didn’t sign up for PR mitigation for Meghan. That’s for Archewell. You should have thought through the consequences of Meghan coming.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-649" id="en0-649" role="doc-noteref">649</a></sup> Harry was outraged. Chandauka’s refusal represented gross disloyalty and was damaging to Meghan and Archewell. For the moment Harry remained silent. Then he sent a short WhatsApp: ‘What’s it all about?’ Chandauka’s long reply laid out the battle lines: she was not part of the Sussexes’ machine; Harry’s staff had treated her and the Sentebale team at the polo field like servants; and, if he wanted, he should find another chairman.</p>
<p class="txt">Unexpectedly challenged, Harry told Ashley Hansen to pursue peace. Chandauka included her media assistant in the Zoom meeting. She decided that Harry would not be given an excuse to malign a black woman. At the end of the conversation, Chandauka believed an equilibrium had been restored. She was mistaken.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>