<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 33</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct33" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct33"><span id="page_292"/>CHAPTER 33</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Nigeria</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Harry’s triumphant smile as he climbed the steps to St Paul’s Cathedral on 8th May 2024 was seen to many as the hallmark of a son delighted to embarrass his father. The service to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Invictus Games was contrived to herald the Sussexes’ status. The Montecito court was asserting its legitimacy within the Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">Supported by Charles Spencer, his sister Jane Fellowes and a clutch of cousins, Harry had chosen to mount an event to rival his father’s Buckingham Palace garden party for 8,000 guests – the King’s first public event since his cancer was diagnosed. Nearly every standing member of the Royal Family was in the garden to support the King while he shook hands with well-wishers.</p>
<p class="txt">As usual, Harry had played the media game, leaving the media to speculate whether he would see his father or even stay at Buckingham Palace. Charles’s spokesman said that Harry had never asked to see his father, while Harry insisted that Charles had refused his request. In fact Harry had rejected the offer of a bedroom in a royal palace on security grounds. His exit from a palace, he explained, would have been public, and without police protection he would be vulnerable to an assassin. ‘It seems it was not good enough,’ said a Palace spokesman. ‘Maybe he was <span id="page_293"/>worried about the mice?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-650" id="en0-650" role="doc-noteref">650</a></sup> On security grounds, Harry preferred to stay at Coworth Park Hotel in Ascot, fifteen minutes from Windsor Castle.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-651" id="en0-651" role="doc-noteref">651</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The acclaimed Invictus Games had become Harry’s lifeboat. The military in over twenty countries supported the competition. Without that global passport, his status and even life’s purpose was diminished. No one disputed the value of the $60 million games for the military community. Men and women injured in the service of their country deserved exceptional support. Participating in a sporting competition boosted the injured servicemen’s enjoyment of life. For all the participants and their families, Harry was the champion of a commendable achievement. At $120,000 per competitor, it was a worthwhile investment.</p>
<p class="txt">But beyond the military community, few were interested in the Games. Since August 2023, fewer than 300,000 people had viewed his Netflix series <em>Heart of Invictus</em> and fewer still had watched to the end. By comparison, Barack Obama’s <em>Leave the World Behind</em> attracted 121 million viewers in its first three weeks. Harry preferred to ignore the poor ratings.</p>
<p class="txt">In the Sussexes’ battle for popularity, the Spencers’ support for Harry and Damian Lewis’s reading of W.E. Henley’s poem ‘Invictus’ in St Paul’s paled in comparison to the increasing popularity of the King. His approval rating was 56 per cent compared to 49 per cent a year earlier, and the approval of Kate was 69 per cent against Meghan’s 25 per cent. Even Charles Spencer’s presence, Harry knew, was not an unequivocal show of support. While they were filming for Harry’s <em>Invictus</em> Netflix series at Diana’s grave at Althorp, the Spencers’ ancestral home, Harry and Meghan had asked Charles Spencer whether he would agree that Archie and Lilibet could change their surnames from Mountbatten-Windsor to Spencer. ‘Absolutely not,’ Spencer replied emphatically. Harry reportedly reeled with surprise.</p>
<p class="txt">As Harry read the lesson in St Paul’s from Corinthians about ‘service’ <span id="page_294"/>and the ‘common good’, he gazed down at his mother’s siblings, apparently unaware of the discrepancy in his family relationships. Those who speculated about Harry’s hope that Charles’s cancer would have a ‘reunifying effect’ were mistaken.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-652" id="en0-652" role="doc-noteref">652</a></sup> King Charles had stayed the previous night at Windsor Castle, but his ‘full’ programme denied Harry the chance of a meeting. Palace officials suspected that Harry’s motive was to bestow credibility on his next stop.</p>
<p class="txt">Late the following afternoon, after the service, Harry met Meghan in Heathrow’s Windsor Suite. Having arrived from Los Angeles, the Duchess was waiting in a secluded area. The couple were heading to Nigeria for what they hoped would be seen across the world as a royal visit. This was the Big One, the opportunity for the Sussexes to eclipse both the King and William.</p>
<p class="txt">In the early hours of 10th May, at Nigeria’s Abuja airport, thirty-one suitcases belonging to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex and their entourage were taken off the delayed British Airways flight by security-cleared handlers and loaded on to an army truck. Standing on the warm tarmac, the Sussexes were officially welcomed by senior military officers. Watching the celebratory hugs and reunions, Meghan and Harry’s entourage, including four bodyguards, were steeled for a hectic three-day visit. Overseeing the group was Josh Kettler, a Californian with a mixed career, recently recruited as Harry’s chief of staff. The Archewell press release extolled Kettler’s virtues and the Sussexes’ ‘thrill’ to have him on board.</p>
<p class="txt">Sitting in a minibus surrounded by twelve armoured cars with soldiers holding AK-47s, the ‘special guests’ headed towards the capital as the temperature rose to 36 degrees. Local traffic stopped as onlookers glimpsed the blurred faces speeding past. Recognition fuelled Meghan’s pride.</p>
<p class="txt">Officially, the Sussexes were in Nigeria to promote the Invictus Games. In reality, the painstaking discussions over the previous eight <span id="page_295"/>months between David Wiseman, Invictus’s 39-year-old director, and Air Vice-Marshal Abidemi Timothy Marquis, a 56-year-old Nigerian former counter-intelligence expert and the military’s director of sports, had focused on Harry’s agenda. Invictus would help Harry to promote himself as a senior member of the Royal Family. Nigeria was also the perfect battleground on which to weaponise a portrayal of the Royal Family as racist.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s host, Nigeria’s defence chief General Christopher Musa, embraced Invictus. As a tool in his war against Boko Haram, a brutal Islamist terror group ravaging the country, Invictus reassured his soldiers of proper care in the event of injury. Few outsiders, Musa knew, could embolden his soldiers to fight harder than the internationally recognised Prince. As Wiseman repeated, Invictus was Harry’s: ‘It’s very much his thing.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-653" id="en0-653" role="doc-noteref">653</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Planning for the trip had started in September 2023. During the Invictus Games in Düsseldorf, David Wiseman had told Marquis that the Sussexes would welcome an invitation. ‘A sort of royal tour,’ suggested the former Yorkshire Regiment infantryman, who had been wounded in his chest by a Taliban bullet. The Air Vice-Marshal was enthusiastic. Meghan, he knew, was popular among Nigerians. Many had followed her on <em>Suits</em>, most had watched her wedding and all of them knew about her interview with Oprah Winfrey. Her visit would highlight the announcement in 2022 that genealogy tests had shown her ancestry to be 43 per cent Nigerian.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-654" id="en0-654" role="doc-noteref">654</a></sup> Accordingly, Wiseman reassured Harry that the majority of Nigerians were convinced that Meghan was the victim of the Royal Family’s racism and Harry had been forced into a heroic exile to protect his wife.</p>
<p class="txt">Making enquiries around Abuja to discover the Sussexes’ plans weeks earlier, the British High Commissioner informally suggested to Nigeria’s government officials that the couple should not be welcomed by the country’s president. London, the British envoy said, would not approve <span id="page_296"/>of the exiles embarrassing the King. His successful lobbying did not minimise the Sussexes’ ambition.</p>
<p class="txt">During countless emails and Zoom calls, Wiseman listed the Sussexes’ proposed agenda. It would include mental health, female empowerment, sport, education and social messaging. He also wanted a few public events with children, women – and wounded soldiers. Plus, everyone lined up to meet the Sussexes should be vetted. In the closely choreographed itinerary, the media would be excluded, particularly from their appointments with General Musa and the state governors. Controlling the media would strictly be the Sussexes’ responsibility. Unlike the usual hordes of journalists on royal tours, the Sussexes had appointed only reporters from <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em> and <em>People</em> magazine to witness their success. Both could be relied upon to describe the Sussexes’ enthusiastic welcome, capture attention in Britain and America, and, most importantly, focus on Meghan’s designer clothes. The ‘What Meghan Wore’ website would signal her fashion choices, notably clothes by the Los Angeles designer Heidi Merrick. Every name mention and click earned Meghan royalties.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-655" id="en0-655" role="doc-noteref">655</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Strangely, at that moment in London, Kate had announced that her office would no longer give details of the clothes she was wearing.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-656" id="en0-656" role="doc-noteref">656</a></sup> ‘The style is there,’ said a Palace spokesman, ‘but it’s about the substance.’ Any distraction from her work would be avoided.</p>
<p class="txt">Within hours of the Sussexes’ arrival, the visitors were cheered by thirty students at the Lightway Academy, a progressive school in Abuja. Wearing a Nigerian bead necklace and a peach-coloured dress, Meghan set the tone among the girls – fans of <em>Suits</em> and admirers of Diana. ‘Thank you for welcoming me home,’ said the consummate performer. After praising the students’ dance, she continued: ‘Nigerian women are brave, resilient, courageous, powerful, beautiful.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-657" id="en0-657" role="doc-noteref">657</a></sup> Emotionally, Meghan spoke of Nigeria as ‘my country, my home’, and told her small audience during an awkward discussion about female empowerment <span id="page_297"/>and mental health, ‘As I look around this room, I see myself in all of you.’ Meghan brought every topic back to herself. ‘You see why I married him?’ she told the students. ‘He’s so smart. And so inspiring because he speaks the truth.’</p>
<p class="txt">Unashamedly, Meghan was upstaging Harry. While Harry was famous as Diana’s son, sixth in the line of succession of the world’s most famous monarchy, Meghan was trying to escape from being simply Harry’s wife. Playing to the audience, the Duchess was on a mission to replicate Diana’s 1990 visit and act as a future Queen, but with the difference that the precursor to any conversation was Meghan speaking about herself. ‘As a mom . . .’ the monologue started, before recounting how every day started with her cooking breakfast for her children and getting them ready for school.</p>
<p class="txt">After fifty minutes, the visitors departed. Everyone had been reminded that Archewell had made a donation to the school. That appeared to be a mistake. Archewell’s accounts did not list a donation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-658" id="en0-658" role="doc-noteref">658</a></sup> After a quick change of clothes – Meghan was dressed in all white – they were driven in an armed convoy to meet General Musa at Abuja’s defence headquarters. Noticeably excited to meet international celebrities, the officer agreed with Harry, ‘The power of sport can change lives.’</p>
<p class="txt">The tour’s highlight for General Musa was to visit wounded soldiers in Kaduna with Harry. Ten years of service in the British Army and his lifelong experience as a royal honed Harry’s bravura appearance. ‘Fifty of them were lying on their beds,’ Harry reported, ‘and I’m sure no one would mind me saying that their morale was low. I could see it in their eyes.’ The former army captain spoke with genuine warmth to the casualties about a promising future despite their appalling injuries. ‘Meet fellow sufferers in the Invictus family,’ he said. ‘With sport, you will recover your resilience. You will feel unconquered.’ Sport would be a vehicle for their recovery. Just as Diana in 1990 had held the hand of a Nigerian leprosy patient, Harry took one soldier’s hand. ‘Get better, be <span id="page_298"/>strong,’ urged Harry. Energised by Harry’s enthusiasm, desultory young men lifted into wheelchairs came to life. They pledged not to allow their injuries to define their lives.</p>
<p class="txt">To prove his commitment, Harry played wheelchair basketball with a small team of injured soldiers against a team led by General Musa. All of the men had lost one or both legs. ‘Get them trained for Vancouver,’ Harry told their commanding officer.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-659" id="en0-659" role="doc-noteref">659</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Not mentioned during the visit was the existential challenge facing Invictus. None of the founding nations were fighting wars. Although Invictus’s promotional photographs showed men without legs energetically playing sports in wheelchairs, the numbers of recently injured had dramatically declined. David Wiseman’s task was to recruit new countries that were fighting wars. Ukraine, Israel and Nigeria were obvious candidates. All three had young limbless ex-servicemen. All three accepted Wiseman’s invitation to compete in Canada.</p>
<p class="txt">From the hospital, Harry headed to meet the governor of Kaduna state, Uba Sani. During the formal meeting, Sani presented to his visitor traditional Hausa clothes and paintings of Harry and Meghan. ‘How are we going to get those back to Los Angeles?’ Harry mumbled as they headed back to the city.</p>
<p class="txt">Journalists excluded from the events were briefed the following day, Saturday 11th May. Meghan had been wearing Diana’s cross pendant necklace to show continuity and respect to the Royal Family.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-660" id="en0-660" role="doc-noteref">660</a></sup> ‘The Markle Sparkle’ one tabloid reported. ‘The Threat to King’ was another tabloid headline.</p>
<p class="txt">Saturday started with a reception at the Defence Headquarters of the Nigerian Armed Forces. Wearing a dark brown and white dress, Meghan stood for ‘God Save the King’. Amid applause, the senior female politician Abike Dabiri gushed, ‘She is beautiful, intelligent, diligent, hard-working and she stands firm in the midst of challenges. Prince Harry, you married the best – our daughter and friend.’ After handing <span id="page_299"/>Meghan gifts and traditional Yoruba clothes, Dabiri christened Meghan ‘With your Yoruba name – Adetokunbo meaning “the Crown has come home from abroad”.’ Meghan had good reason to feel that her destiny was indeed as the queen-in-waiting.</p>
<p class="txt">Next, the convoy took Meghan back to her hotel to change into a white strapless linen dress, and then back on the road to a panel discussion about female empowerment. Mo Abudu, the panel’s moderator and chief executive of EbonyLife media group, asked the audience to pick a Nigerian name for the Duchess. ‘Ifeoma,’ proposed an Igbo tribesman, meaning ‘a treasured thing’. Another suggested ‘Omowale’, meaning ‘the child has come home’. Centre stage, Meghan blended as a Nigerian into the ceremonies and musical performances.</p>
<p class="txt">Then a speedy drive back to the hotel to change yet again, this time into local Nigerian clothes. Before Meghan re-emerged, the wife of Nigeria’s president, Oluremi Tinubu, was recorded criticising Meghan’s outfits. ‘We do not accept nakedness in our culture,’ she said about Meghan’s favoured off-the-shoulder dresses. ‘It’s not beautiful at all.’ One half of Nigeria’s 230 million population is Muslim.</p>
<p class="txt">Halfway through the trip, Buckingham Palace’s officials were fuming. ‘Meghan’s and Harry’s speeches,’ said one, ‘and their whole attitude has been designed to give the impression that they are still fully paid-up royals.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-661" id="en0-661" role="doc-noteref">661</a></sup> In the midst of his ‘royal tour’, Harry had deliberately annoyed his family. ‘These trips are about us being able to go out and focus on the things that mean so much to us,’ Harry told <em>People</em> magazine. ‘And being on the ground, to us, is what it’s all about.’ The Sussexes’ Nigerian hosts spoke of Britain’s loss and quoted a Nigerian proverb: ‘The cow never knows the value of its tail until it’s chopped off.’ The senior army officers escorting the Sussexes were entranced. For the hosts, Meghan was a hero.</p>
<p class="txt">Beyond the public meetings, during the journeys and private meals, the army officers became intently interested as the Sussexes’ conversation <span id="page_300"/>strayed into the reasons for their flight to California. Meghan’s hosts had watched her Oprah Winfrey interview. Ever since then, most Nigerians were convinced that King Charles and his family were guilty of driving Meghan to near-suicide and forcing the family to flee from Britain. They believed Meghan’s denunciation of the Royal Family as racists.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-662" id="en0-662" role="doc-noteref">662</a></sup> This was the moment for Meghan to dazzle.</p>
<p class="txt">Over a dinner conversation in the military’s headquarters, Meghan told her story of two senior royals asking Harry while she was pregnant what colour the unborn child would be. Meghan, dressed in a strapless white St Agni gown and a Diana necklace, commanded the attention of her uniformed audience. All were captivated by her smouldering vengeance. Unsurprised by her account, the Nigerians were not alone in sharing her anger. Meghan’s victimhood was echoed around the room. Even though Britain’s prime minister at the time, Rishi Sunak, was of Indian descent and black people had secured senior ministerial appointments in Whitehall, the Sussexes’ hosts agreed that those were ‘cosmetic’. ‘The Palace threw you under a bus,’ a Nigerian general scoffed. ‘The King should have protected you.’ Her hosts believed Harry’s complaint that Meghan had not ‘fitted the mould’ and that the Palace had wanted him to marry a white woman.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-663" id="en0-663" role="doc-noteref">663</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">During that meal, Harry remained silent. He did not correct Meghan’s familiar errors about his ‘race’ conversation with Charles, but he did spring into life when Diana was mentioned. ‘She was murdered,’ he announced. His Nigerian hosts agreed. Mysterious forces had combined to kill Harry’s pregnant mother.</p>
<p class="txt">One mealtime conversation centred on Nigeria’s bid to host the 2029 Invictus Games, an ambition promoted by General Musa. Harry and Wiseman encouraged the idea, although their immediate focus was on the 2027 Games. A bid by Washington DC had been rejected in favour of Birmingham. The British city had been selected by Harry to challenge the Royal Family and the British government to recognize <span id="page_301"/>his status by giving him official support. Curiously, the dates coincided with Camilla’s eightieth birthday. Asked by a Nigerian general whether Meghan would be warmly received by Britons, Harry smiled. ‘Meghan’s definitely coming to Birmingham,’ he replied with a mischievous smile. ‘Meghan’s supporters will welcome her.’ Harry must have envisaged a showdown, especially by inviting King Charles to the event.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-664" id="en0-664" role="doc-noteref">664</a></sup> The Nigerians agreed that using the British Army to embarrass King Charles, William and Kate was Harry’s rightful purpose to prove the Sussexes were even more popular than the King.</p>
<p class="txt">By the end of Saturday, though, some were reassessing the trip. When Meghan said to the Lightway children, ‘I see myself in all of you,’ she seemed to have overlooked their impoverished background. Nigeria was wracked by inflation and crime, and many employees went unpaid. Seemingly oblivious to that misery, over the previous thirty-six hours, Meghan had staged a fashion parade of designer clothes and gold jewellery. And she had noticeably ditched a scarf in Nigeria’s colours because it clashed first with her Johanna Ortiz strapless dress and then with ‘The Windsor’, a backless Heidi Merrick dress.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-665" id="en0-665" role="doc-noteref">665</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To Meghan’s good fortune, since all their events were behind closed doors, the contrast between the splendour of Meghan and her local audiences passed unnoticed by those British and American newspapers keen for every detail. Tellingly, beyond the staged events, the trip aroused little interest in Nigeria. No national newspaper reported her presence.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">The Sussexes were about to spend one day in Lagos.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-666" id="en0-666" role="doc-noteref">666</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Hope everything goes well today,’ a British journalist said to Miranda Barbot, the Sussexes’ publicist, on Sunday 12th May. ‘What could go wrong?’ Barbot rapped back.</p>
<p class="txt">Trouble started at Lagos Airport after the Sussexes landed on the short flight from Abuja. Since Meghan refused to fly by military transport, the <span id="page_302"/>entourage of about thirty people had flown on Air Peace’s brand new 120-seat Embraer 195-E2. The private airline, one of the region’s biggest, was owned by a high-profile Nigerian businessman, Allen Onyema. In the nature of Nigerian politics, Onyema readily agreed to the military’s request for a freebie: they ruled the country. Naturally, Onyema was standing alongside the welcoming party of senior military officials at Lagos Airport. The pay-off was inevitable. The businessman made sure that he walked alongside the Sussexes as they crossed the tarmac. The photograph of the threesome also recorded his plane in the background. Air Peace, claimed his publicists, had won ‘royal approval’. Taking free flights had become normal for the Sussexes and, relying on their staff, they had no reason to be suspicious.</p>
<p class="txt">As the Sussexes stood next to Onyema watching a dance troupe at the airport’s Presidential Wing, they ought to have been made aware that their host was ‘wanted’ in the US for alleged fraud. The US federal indictment filed in November 2019 accused Onyema of laundering $20 million from Nigeria through American bank accounts. ‘His trail of deceit and trickery,’ said Robert Murphy, the investigating agent in Atlanta, ‘has come to a skidding halt.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-667" id="en0-667" role="doc-noteref">667</a></sup> Onyema had allegedly used laundered money since 2010 to buy a Lexus, a Rolls-Royce, a Mercedes and designer goods at Prada and Louis Vuitton. ‘Allen Onyema’s status as a wealthy businessman turned out to be a fraud,’ said Murphy. Inevitably, Onyema dismissed the allegations. Safe from extradition, he enjoyed accompanying the royal celebrities during the packed day.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-668" id="en0-668" role="doc-noteref">668</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Being the guest of an alleged fraudster was not uncommon for visitors to Nigeria, renowned as one of the world’s most corrupt nations. Throughout the day, the Sussexes appeared to be untroubled by associating with a man indicted in America. The opportunity to secure media attention and status was their priority.</p>
<p class="txt">After visiting a school, meeting the Giants of Africa basketball team, watching street-style dances and a polo match, broken by lunch with a <span id="page_303"/>group of prominent Nigerians, the tour ended at the State Governor’s House. In her third outfit of the day, Meghan had changed from a cream strapless dress into a yellow floor-length Carolina Herrera outfit to hear more praise for Harry, Invictus and especially herself, a Nigerian woman who ‘had come home’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-669" id="en0-669" role="doc-noteref">669</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">At the end of the three days, the Nigerian officers and the Sussexes were thrilled. The Sussexes appeared to have promised donations to various charities. In the event, Archewell’s accounts showed that just $10,000 had been committed to Nigeria.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-670" id="en0-670" role="doc-noteref">670</a></sup> ‘So we look forward to travelling more,’ said Harry on his eve of departing. Plans for another foreign ‘state trip’ were well advanced. The couple flew back to Los Angeles.</p>
<p class="txt">Tina Brown, the writer and former <em>Vanity Fair</em> editor, hailed the visit for recalling the original hopes for the Duke and Duchess. ‘After all the trashing of Harry . . . actually when I saw him and Meghan in Nigeria, I had a nostalgia,’ she told the BBC. ‘I felt this is what could have been, these two – who are enormously appealing to the public, and who are very good at it – were out there in Nigeria looking very attractive and being appealing people. And what a pity it is they’ve gone.’ There was, she said, ‘a Harry-shaped hole in the monarchy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-671" id="en0-671" role="doc-noteref">671</a></sup></p>
</section>

</body>
</html>