<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 34</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct34" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct34"><span id="page_304"/>CHAPTER 34</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Battling</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">The mighty ESPN American sports network’s offer of the Pat Tillman Award to Harry for creating the Invictus Games confirmed Tina Brown’s opinion about the Prince’s loss to Britain. The award recognized ‘exceptional individuals who exemplify courage, perseverance and service’. Harry appreciated any honour for his humanitarian virtues. The Los Angeles ceremony on 11th July 2024 was the sporting equivalent of the Oscars.</p>
<p class="txt">The award commemorated Pat Tillman, an American NFL football star on a £3 million contract with the Arizona Cardinals. After Islamist terrorists attacked America on 11th September 2001, Tillman abandoned his profession and enlisted as a Ranger to fight in Afghanistan. After he was killed by ‘friendly fire’ on a roadside in 2004, his widow Marie and his mother Mary established the award with ESPN. Kate Jackson, ESPN’s executive responsible for approving the awards, ranked Harry among the ‘incredible individuals’ who ‘change the world’.</p>
<p class="txt">Unlike the previous ones, Mary Tillman was not told in advance about Harry’s nomination. After hearing the media reports, she denounced ESPN: ‘I am shocked as to why they would select such a controversial and divisive individual to receive the award.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-672" id="en0-672" role="doc-noteref">672</a></sup> As opposed to her son, <span id="page_305"/>she said, Harry had walked away from honour and duty for money and fame. His lack of loyalty to the Crown should have eliminated him from consideration: ‘He publicly disrespected his family and ran away from service to his country as a royal. He is unworthy of this award.’</p>
<p class="txt">Within one day of Mary Tillman’s denunciation, 12,000 Americans signed a petition demanding that Harry should not receive the award.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-673" id="en0-673" role="doc-noteref">673</a></sup> Ten days later, the petition had attracted 68,000 signatures. The backlash stunned Harry. Disapproval distressed him. Any criticism was taken as a personal wound. ‘The reaction certainly took the shine off the award,’ admitted his office.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-674" id="en0-674" role="doc-noteref">674</a></sup> America’s overwhelming support for the Sussexes had evidently faded. The social media hashtags #MeghanMarkleExposed and #HarryandMeghanaregrifters reflected the Sussexes’ problems.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-675" id="en0-675" role="doc-noteref">675</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">No one could doubt Harry’s commitment to veterans though. As the patron of the British charity Scotty’s Little Soldiers, he supported 680 children whose fathers were killed in action. ‘Just remember,’ said Harry in a recorded conversation with children, ‘your lost parent wants you to be happy.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-676" id="en0-676" role="doc-noteref">676</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Mary Tillman was not at Los Angeles’s Dolby Theatre to watch Harry’s appearance. Or see the welcome by his host, Serena Williams. On that day, many assumed that Meghan’s friend and their joint agents William Morris Endeavor had influenced ESPN to give Harry the award. To keep her identity separate from Harry’s, Meghan had initially refused the invitation to support Harry, but she did appear on the official photograph with Serena Williams.</p>
<p class="txt">Appearing unusually nervous, Harry read his crafted speech, praising the Invictus Games for uniting injured veterans with ‘humanity to form a family. They exemplify the very best in all of us.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-677" id="en0-677" role="doc-noteref">677</a></sup> The genuine applause for Harry could not conceal how the controversy about the Sussexes had spread to America. In Britain, <em>Newsweek</em> reported that Meghan’s popularity had collapsed with just 1 per cent of boomers feeling ‘very positive’ about her. A YouGov poll in May reported that Meghan was <span id="page_306"/>disliked by 65 per cent of Britons, including 45 per cent whose views were ‘very negative’. Harry’s ratings were only 25 per cent positive.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-678" id="en0-678" role="doc-noteref">678</a></sup> The image of a universally loved Harry had disappeared. America was divided. Once again, Harry was battling.</p>
<p class="txt">His appearance at a BetterUp conference in San Francisco to speak about ‘Beyond Burnout: Transforming C-Level Stress into Strength’ – for $1,500 a ticket – was overshadowed by employees complaining about BetterUp’s ‘toxic atmosphere’. While Harry spoke about ‘building resilience’ to cope with ‘unique pressure’, he was also in the firing line from one hundred ex-employees complaining about ‘the worst company I’ve worked for’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-679" id="en0-679" role="doc-noteref">679</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">There were similar bad vibes coming from Netflix. Executives watching the polo series’ ‘dailies’ – the video rushes from polo matches across America – were unenthusiastic. ‘No one cares a shit about polo,’ one commented. His sceptical colleagues agreed. Netflix’s viewers had no relationship with polo’s pampered players and their eccentric sport. Netflix’s publicists ventured that the best advertising tag was a series to ‘pull the curtain back on the grit and passion of the sport’. Netflix’s chief content officer, Bela Bajaria, was philosophical: ‘That’s the best they can offer and we’ve got to take something.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-680" id="en0-680" role="doc-noteref">680</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s original pitch to Netflix promised to closely observe him and Meghan socialising with the super-rich polo set, surrounded by fast-moving, beautiful horses. But contrary to the original understanding, Harry had refused with a brief exception to play any games for the camera. Part of the reason was Meghan’s dislike of polo and horses. Another reason was Harry’s fear of being closely associated in public with racy playboys. That would damage his image as a servant of charities. Instead of Harry as the star, viewers would see his friend Nacho Figueras.</p>
<p class="txt">Overhanging all those irritations was Harry’s broken relationship with his family. He insisted on continuing his appeal against the government to secure armed protection in Britain. In sporadic conversations with <span id="page_307"/>Palace officials, he insisted that his father could persuade the Home Office to reverse Ravec’s decision for considering bespoke protection on a visit-by-visit basis. The officials’ denial of that possibility was followed by Harry’s continued demands for a suitable time to speak to his father. Disconcertingly, the officials repeated their response: ‘His Majesty is unavailable.’ Charles could see no advantage of an argument with his belligerent son. The result was evident on Father’s Day. William posted a message to Charles. From Harry there was silence.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-681" id="en0-681" role="doc-noteref">681</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The schism between Harry and Britain was widening. Having been blacklisted from Hugh Grosvenor’s wedding, he heard that another old friend Hugh van Cutsem had appeared on the popular TV series <em>Clarkson’s Farm</em>, which could have been seen as a slap in the face. Guilty of making disparaging remarks about Meghan, Jeremy Clarkson represented in Harry’s opinion a ‘long-standing pattern of writing articles that spread hate rhetoric, dangerous conspiracy theories and misogyny’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-682" id="en0-682" role="doc-noteref">682</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry could not let go of his hatred of the media. Despite Meghan’s advice to stop the lawsuits, his commitment to the battle was entrenched. The tabloids, he believed, were ‘central to the breakdown of my relationship with my family. They’ve caused part of the rift.’ He even cursed the media’s ‘torrent of abuse’ whenever the tabloids accurately described his criticism of the Royal Family. His hostile accusations, he complained, were unsympathetically reported. That disrespect re-energised his crusade against the tabloids.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-683" id="en0-683" role="doc-noteref">683</a></sup> He refocused his sights on Rebekah Brooks, successively editor of the <em>News of the World</em> and the <em>Sun</em>, and currently the chief executive in Britain of Rupert Murdoch’s News UK.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry had met Brooks some years earlier at a <em>Sun</em>-sponsored Help for Heroes event in the Imperial War Museum. Exuding charm, Brooks persuaded Harry that she was ‘OK’. In hindsight, he felt ‘duped’ because she was ‘essentially masquerading by using the military community to <span id="page_308"/>try to cover up all the appalling things that she and her newspapers had done’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-684" id="en0-684" role="doc-noteref">684</a></sup> In 2014, Brooks stood trial at the Old Bailey for phone hacking. She was acquitted. The verdict ‘absolutely astonished’ Harry. He was equally angry when Brooks ‘ignored’ his attempts to settle his hacking dispute against the <em>Sun</em> before his wedding. She would not agree to a public apology. In retaliation, Harry banned her journalists from his wedding ceremony.</p>
<p class="txt">News UK was a vulnerable target. The <em>News of the World</em> had been closed following the exposure of its journalists’ illegal hacking and several employees – including a past editor – had been jailed. By 2024, News UK had paid compensation on 1,650 claims, but in their settlement agreements they never admitted culpability. Harry, David Sherborne and the solicitors were determined to change that situation. Citing ninety-three newspaper reports allegedly obtained by unlawful activities, Harry and his aggressive co-claimant, the actor Hugh Grant, accused News UK’s journalists of ‘burglary to order’. News UK’s private investigators, said Grant, broke into the houses of celebrities, including his own and Harry’s, to plant bugging devices and steal documents.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-685" id="en0-685" role="doc-noteref">685</a></sup> News UK denied those allegations.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was intent on personally harming Rupert Murdoch and Rebekah Brooks, but the judge refused Harry’s attempt to include those two ‘trophy’ targets in his trial.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-686" id="en0-686" role="doc-noteref">686</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By April 2024, the estimated legal bill for Harry, Hugh Grant and other claimants was over £10 million and, once the pre-trial hearings were under way, was expected to reach £30 million by September. Thereafter it would soar. Any ‘celebrity’ who lost his or her claim after a trial could expect to pay ruinous legal expenses of up to £10 million, albeit the costs were largely covered by insurers. But in exceptional circumstances, even victory could be financially ruinous. Hugh Grant was the first to surrender. According to Sherborne, Grant was offered a ‘large amount’ by News UK and was ‘forced’ to accept – albeit, by <span id="page_309"/>his insurers. Forty claimants had started the action against News UK in 2019. It was now down to two: Harry and the peer Tom Watson, a former Labour politician. Refusing to capitulate, Harry was determined that Rebekah Brooks should be humiliated in the witness box.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-687" id="en0-687" role="doc-noteref">687</a></sup> ‘One of the main reasons for seeing this through,’ he said, ‘is accountability because I’m the last person that can achieve that.’ Even if the amount he won was ‘a hundred times’ less than the settlement offer, he pledged not to surrender.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-688" id="en0-688" role="doc-noteref">688</a></sup> His insurers made that decision.</p>
<p class="txt">Hugh Grant had another good reason to pull out. The judge, Timothy Fancourt, disapproved of Sherborne making unprovable allegations on Harry’s behalf. Not least that the <em>Sun</em> planted ‘bugging’ and ‘tracking’ devices on Chelsy Davy’s car. After failing to produce any evidence, Sherborne withdrew that assertion.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-689" id="en0-689" role="doc-noteref">689</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Evidently, Judge Fancourt was similarly irritated by Harry’s sanctimonious attitude. In the witness box, Harry had accused the <em>Mirror</em> and News UK of destroying evidence. Fancourt discovered that Harry had done the same. Harry had ‘wiped [his] entire chat history’ with J.R. Moehringer. All the relevant documents, admitted Harry, had been destroyed, despite him being told by the judge to keep them. ‘That’s troubling,’ observed Fancourt. Equally suspicious was that Harry had failed to disclose many relevant documents handed over to him by Buckingham Palace. Fancourt accused Harry of ‘obfuscating’ and creating an ‘obstacle course’ for News UK. The Prince was ordered to sign a witness statement to explain his conduct and pay £60,000 in legal costs.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-690" id="en0-690" role="doc-noteref">690</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">A judge’s criticism did not trouble Harry. Reassured by his lawyers of eventual victory, only Meghan’s complaints caused any friction. His courtroom battles were damaging to her brand. For two years, she had tried to keep silent about the Royal Family and Britain. On the eve of launching her Netflix series, she wanted the focus on her, not on Harry’s battles. She needed another curtain-raiser.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_310"/>At the end of July 2024, Meghan flew in a private jet from Santa Barbara to the Hamptons with Jamie Kern Lima, the billionaire cosmetics founder of IT Cosmetics. Lima’s rags-to-riches story – surviving after a six-year battle to stave off bankruptcy which climaxed in the sale of her company to L’Oréal for $1.2 billion – impressed Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-691" id="en0-691" role="doc-noteref">691</a></sup> Instinctively, Meghan equated herself with Lima. ‘Oh, Jamie,’ Meghan said with total sincerity, ‘I feel like we haven’t talked about our blood type. But yours is probably an A positive like mine. Because even my blood is overachieving.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-692" id="en0-692" role="doc-noteref">692</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Both were heading for a party hosted by Amy Griffin, the wife of billionaire hedge fund owner John Griffin. Among the other guests were the billionaire Sara Blakely, the founder of the women’s shapewear company Spanx, and Gwyneth Paltrow.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-693" id="en0-693" role="doc-noteref">693</a></sup> Gossip later suggested that Paltrow and others had deliberately avoided being photographed with Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-694" id="en0-694" role="doc-noteref">694</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To impress Lima in the run-up to her Netflix series, Meghan sent a basket of jam and other American Riviera Orchard products with a printed card signed, ‘With Compliments HRH Duchess of Sussex’. To please Meghan, Lima posted a photograph of the basket with Meghan’s card. That provoked fury in London. Meghan was accused of breaking her agreement with the Queen not to use ‘HRH’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-695" id="en0-695" role="doc-noteref">695</a></sup> That same day, Meghan’s spokesman blatantly denied that Meghan used her HRH title.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-696" id="en0-696" role="doc-noteref">696</a></sup> And then he refined his denial. Meghan, he said, did not use the HRH ‘for commercial purposes’ but only ‘informally among friends’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-697" id="en0-697" role="doc-noteref">697</a></sup> Appearing later on an episode of Lima’s eponymous podcast, Meghan could not resist telling Jamie Lima that her life among the Royal Family was like ‘being in the trenches’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-698" id="en0-698" role="doc-noteref">698</a></sup> Yet, once again, she had used that very family to promote herself.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>