<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 35</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct35" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct35"><span id="page_311"/>CHAPTER 35</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Colombia</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">In spring 2024, Meghan had received an invitation out of the blue from a Colombian politician to pay a four-day ‘state visit’ to the South American country. The politician, Francia Márquez, was Colombia’s controversial vice president. Márquez’s explanation for her unexpected initiative excited Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">After watching Meghan and Harry in their original Netflix series – <em>Harry &amp; Meghan</em> – wrote Márquez, she felt a kinship with the Duchess. As the descendant of African slaves and the first Colombian to reach such high office, she wanted to join with Meghan to ‘build bridges, open doors and address a problem which concerns all of humanity’. Known for leading the country’s anti-imperialist call for reparations from former colonial powers, Márquez was openly impressed by the historians’ denunciations of the British Empire and Commonwealth in the series. Meghan, she assumed, sympathised with her battle against the white supremacist exploitation of black people and the end of capitalism. As Colombia’s minister of equality, wrote Márquez, she shared Meghan’s passion for empowering women and protecting young people from cyberbullying. Not mentioned was Márquez’s assumption that at the end of their visit, Archewell would donate generously to her causes.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_312"/>Meghan had every reason to embrace Márquez as a compatriot offering her a platform. Even Márquez’s opponents could not deny her remarkable backstory. The 41-year-old lawyer had slept as a child on a dirt floor, worked in a gold mine at sixteen, was abandoned when pregnant and led marches to stop illegal gold mining. But Meghan evidently did not consider Márquez’s motives for the invitation. To her countrymen, the reasons were obvious: the beleaguered left-wing politician needed to boost her reputation. Accused of corruption and fearful of assassination, she was forced to travel across her drug cartel-dominated country by helicopter. Under her left-wing government, poverty in Colombia had increased from 30.9 per cent in 2016 to 34.5 per cent in 2022, well above Latin America’s average of 24.1 per cent. Extreme poverty had also increased in the same period, from 12 per cent to 16.9 per cent.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-699" id="en0-699" role="doc-noteref">699</a></sup> Despite those grim statistics, Márquez had allegedly used public funds to build a large private house.</p>
<p class="txt">To agree upon the details of their visit, Meghan dispatched three trusted women to Bogotá: her chief of staff Miranda Barbot, her publicity chief Ashley Hansen and Shauna Nep, Archewell’s co-executive director earning $300,000 annually.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s representatives met Andrea Alfonso, a professional diplomat, and Tatiana Escobar, a lawyer assigned to Márquez’s office. Alfonso explained that the invitation stemmed from Márquez’s shared interest to make the internet safer. To the Colombians’ surprise, the visitors did not question the events that the government proposed. Rather, they focused on the Sussexes’ security as they travelled across the violent county. Once they were assured of receiving the same intense security as Márquez, they agreed on a schedule. Márquez was unaware that Meghan intended to use the visit to promote herself as a fashion influencer.</p>
<p class="txt">To protect the Sussexes from potential assassins, there would be no advance notice of their visit. Every venue would only be told of <span id="page_313"/>their identity shortly before their arrival. The media, Barbot insisted, would not be given access. No foreign journalists were to be allowed entry to any event – except the <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em> columnist Bianca Betancourt, alongside Archewell’s photographer and cameraman Eric Charbonneau.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-700" id="en0-700" role="doc-noteref">700</a></sup> Betancourt was chosen to focus solely on Meghan’s fashion choices and ‘accurately’ praise the visit without providing details. Branding was Meghan’s priority. Even before her arrival in Colombia, Meghan had arranged that her ‘fashion portfolio’, or post-London ‘freedom style’, would feature in <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em> and in the <em>New York Times</em>.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-701" id="en0-701" role="doc-noteref">701</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On the eve of welcoming the Sussexes, Márquez began to fear the backlash. The former housemaid was frequently condemned by her opponents as ‘the biggest fraud in the black community’ for doing nothing for the poor but spending money on herself. As a known anti-royalist, her critics said, she was cynically using the Sussexes to divert attention from the scandals of a corrupt, violent government.</p>
<p class="txt">On Márquez’s orders, the source of funding for the Sussexes’ trip was to remain secret. Although Márquez would claim that Archewell paid for all their hotel and travel expenses, the costs have not appeared in Archewell’s accounts. As the government’s guests, the Sussexes would not expect to pay. Their hotels – the presidential suite at the Four Seasons in Bogotá and the best suites at the Sofitel Legend in Cartagena and at the Marriott in Cali – cost about £2,500 per night. In addition, they would need eight rooms for their entourage. To rebut those Colombian politicians questioning the £2.9 million cost of the Sussexes’ trip, Márquez would publish ‘official’ accounts identifying the total government costs as just £44,725. The remainder, she said, was funded by ‘philanthropic resources’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-702" id="en0-702" role="doc-noteref">702</a></sup> That was a reference to Open Society, an international charity financed by George Soros, the billionaire fund manager. Márquez agreed with Meghan that Soros’s involvement should be kept secret, including their use of a private jet.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_314"/>The only hiccup before the Sussexes’ departure was the resignation of Harry’s chief of staff, Josh Kettler. On his appointment, Kettler was heralded as ‘guiding [Harry] through his next phase’. Three months later, both sides agreed ‘he wasn’t the right fit’. Kettler was the nineteenth employee known to leave Montecito since 2020. Other appointments and resignations were not published.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-703" id="en0-703" role="doc-noteref">703</a></sup> <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-704" id="en0-704" role="doc-noteref">704</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry was not in a good mood when the private jet landed in Bogotá on 15th August in secrecy. On the journey to the city centre in a convoy of bulletproof cars driven by special forces, surrounded by nine armoured cars filled with heavily armed military, Harry looked glum. He was under pressure. Not least because of reports that William reportedly would ban Harry from his coronation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-705" id="en0-705" role="doc-noteref">705</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Fifteen minutes after landing, the convoy arrived at the presidential palace, the Casa de Nariño. The visitors were welcomed by Francia Márquez and her partner, Yerney Pinillo. For thirty minutes they chatted over tea, coffee and traditional Colombian cheese bread. Then they headed for a quick change before the first event. Advised by a team of stylists, Meghan had brought outfits by eleven designers for every public appearance. The ‘Meghan Effect’ would be enhanced by her make-up artist and hairdresser travelling in her entourage.</p>
<p class="txt">Dressed in a $2,150 metallic jacquard dress, wearing $875 Jimmy Choo sandals, and a gold Cartier necklace and rings valued at $23,550, plus a Tank Française watch inherited from Diana,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-706" id="en0-706" role="doc-noteref">706</a></sup> Meghan arrived at the National Arts Centre (CNA) to watch a dance group.Next, the Sussexes joined a panel discussion with Márquez in a half-filled room about the perils of fake news on social media for social cohesion. The audience was more interested in Meghan’s metallic outfit.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-707" id="en0-707" role="doc-noteref">707</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">For the following event, Meghan wore clothes by White Mango and Banana Republic with a Cesta Collective basket bag handwoven in Rwanda. ‘With Cesta,’ Meghan said, ‘I really started to understand how many women’s lives were being impacted and uplifted through <span id="page_315"/>their work.’ Living in mud huts, the ‘uplifted’ women making the bags earned ten pence an hour, a total of £2.48 for each bag. The bag sold in America for $724.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-708" id="en0-708" role="doc-noteref">708</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">As a philanthropic businessperson on a humanitarian mission, Meghan also touted a £556 Mini Fan Bag. The bag had been previously promoted by <em>Vogue</em> and Net-a-Porter. Her publicist offered a quote from Meghan about her gift to support designers of ‘smaller, up-and-coming brands that haven’t got the attention that they should be getting’. Followers of her Instagram account were guided to her ‘ShopMy page’ to buy her choice of clothes and accessories, aware that she would take a commission.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-709" id="en0-709" role="doc-noteref">709</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The next morning, dressed in a navy Veronica Beard suit and black Manolo Blahnik heels, with a £3,775 Loro Piana ‘Loom’ handbag and Diana’s gold butterfly earrings, Meghan led Harry into the Colegio Cultura school for another discussion about the impact of social media. The headmaster, Leonel Parra, had been told to expect ‘an important’ visitor. The school building was locked down by armed soldiers when the couple arrived three hours late. As Harry started to speak to a student, Meghan’s eyes closed, her hands became tightly clasped and she gave him a sharp look. He nodded obediently and stopped talking. Meghan addressed the student in Spanish. Soon after, Meghan did what had now become an almost ‘love swoon’ ritual – leaning her head on to Harry’s shoulder, looking up at him doe-eyed and holding his hand.</p>
<p class="txt">Next, they headed to the Fanny Mikey theatre to watch fifteen minutes of a romantic Spanish drama. Their visit, the director Xiomara Suescún was told, was planned to raise a substantial donation from the Sussexes. ‘That man’s not wearing underwear,’ Harry observed of an actor with painted buttocks. ‘Don’t look at him from the front,’ joked Suescún. Noticing their laughter, Meghan swiftly moved close to Harry and pulled him away.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-710" id="en0-710" role="doc-noteref">710</a></sup> Ignoring Suescún, she posed affectionately <span id="page_316"/>with Harry for their photographer, Eric Charbonneau. ‘Did you understand it?’ Suescún asked Harry after the performance. ‘So-so,’ replied Harry. Suescún laughed. ‘It’s about a girl who’s meant to marry a rich man. But at the last moment she runs off to marry somebody poor.’ Harry looked baffled.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-711" id="en0-711" role="doc-noteref">711</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Exiting through the theatre’s garage, Meghan did a quick clothes change into a pink and gold minidress and headed for a dance display. Harry, the CNA’s staff noticed, had become ‘stiff’. The Colombians realised that he was cast as the supporting act for Meghan’s visit.</p>
<p class="txt">On the following day, dressed in a £1,595 Johanna Ortiz ‘showstopper’ dress, Meghan visited the La Giralda school. Locals reported that all the children had been ordered to curtsy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-712" id="en0-712" role="doc-noteref">712</a></sup> ‘You’re the same age as my son Archie,’ said Meghan to a curtsying girl. Like the other designers of Meghan’s clothes, Ortiz testified that after her appearance the ‘Meghan Effect’ had sparked ‘a phenomenal amount of orders’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-713" id="en0-713" role="doc-noteref">713</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The day’s highlight was lunch for thirty government officials and businessmen. Dressed in a £5,000 sleeveless cerulean Oscar de la Renta dress described by <em>Harper’s</em> as ‘fantastic’, with a Logan Hollowell necklace and earrings that had belonged to Diana, the Duchess swept into Márquez’s official residence.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-714" id="en0-714" role="doc-noteref">714</a></sup> Harry followed. With the exception of Eric Charbonneau, the media were kept out. ‘Everything Márquez does,’ said one of the politician’s aides, ‘ends up being mocked, criticised or ridiculed. So, no media to avoid that.’</p>
<p class="txt">Rey Guerrero, a trusted chef, had been hired by Márquez six months earlier. ‘I started researching what they liked to eat,’ revealed Guerrero. Harry, he discovered, ‘has a big sweet tooth and loves a specific kind of chicken from a place in London, but obviously I wasn’t going to cook fried chicken.’ Instead, Guerrero picked seafood – <em>arropado</em>, or wrapped – and Diana’s favourite mango sorbet drink. And for Meghan, he baked a lemon cake. ‘They really enjoyed the richness of the Pacific cuisine,’ recalled Guerrero. ‘A lot of love and surprise.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-715" id="en0-715" role="doc-noteref">715</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_317"/>Sitting on the side of an undecorated room, Harry made little effort to look interested. People nodded towards him and then switched away. The focus throughout the tour was on Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-716" id="en0-716" role="doc-noteref">716</a></sup> As she spoke to the officials, Harry picked at a plate of food. His morose face barely changed as he was accosted by Guerrero offering a glass of <em>viche</em>, a strong traditional liquor. ‘Very good for your sex life and fertility,’ said the smiling Colombian in Spanish. After the translation, Harry forced a fleeting laugh.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-717" id="en0-717" role="doc-noteref">717</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By the third day, Harry was wilting. Meghan, ever the professional, was in <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em>’s words ‘radiating warm Californian energy’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-718" id="en0-718" role="doc-noteref">718</a></sup> The Sussexes were unaware of the widespread protest against the millions spent on the visit. ‘Instead of worrying about the economy that affects everyone, they are worried about bowing to the English nobility,’ said an opponent of Márquez.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-719" id="en0-719" role="doc-noteref">719</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">That morning, the Sussexes arrived by helicopter in Cali, the capital of the cocaine cartels. Hundreds of soldiers and police lined the street to keep the public away.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-720" id="en0-720" role="doc-noteref">720</a></sup> Fawning officials greeted Meghan at a school on La Boquilla beach. After listening to children hammering on drums, she spoke about human rights. Her audience lived in a neighbourhood infested by crime and drugs. Among the hosts was Taliana Vargas, the wife of Cali’s mayor and a former Miss Colombia. After a big fake smile, Meghan gaslit Vargas.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-721" id="en0-721" role="doc-noteref">721</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Next came a helicopter ride to San Basilio de Palenque, historically the first town on the continent for liberated African slaves, founded after a revolt in 1599. For Márquez, Palenque was ‘the symbol of resistance and voices against injustice’. Highlighting ‘Archewell’s lifelong philanthropic endeavours’, <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em> also reported that Meghan had ‘executed a flawless outfit change’ into a white linen skirt and wore a Cartier necklace and a watch owned by Diana.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-722" id="en0-722" role="doc-noteref">722</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In intense humid heat, surrounded by a group of locals, the Sussexes walked across a grim square towards a memorial to a slave uprising. <span id="page_318"/>Just a few people heard Harry apologise for his family’s role in the slave trade. ‘He should ask for a pardon,’ said Segundo Reyes, the president of the town’s police. Another local urged Harry to ‘repent’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-723" id="en0-723" role="doc-noteref">723</a></sup> After the translation Harry nodded.</p>
<p class="txt">‘The locals were also not impressed by the royals,’ recalled Ricardo Maldonado, a photographer. ‘Palenqueros would not even give a damn if the Pope came.’ A tour of the museum about slavery planned to take fifteen minutes was over within three minutes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-724" id="en0-724" role="doc-noteref">724</a></sup> Outside, a red-faced Harry spoke about an ‘incredibly moving experience’. Harry and Meghan made an attempt to look interested as local musicians played discordant notes and community leaders spoke about their suffering and poverty.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-725" id="en0-725" role="doc-noteref">725</a></sup> But then their façade collapsed.</p>
<p class="txt">Márquez had spotted Meghan embracing and then rubbing the back of her partner, Yerney Pinillo. Meghan was oblivious to the effect of her behaviour. The photographers perked up.‘Flirtgate’ was a bonus. Furious about the gift Meghan was creating for her political opponents, the vice president strode angrily towards the couple. Instinctively, Harry stuck his arms out to stop her and then, conscious of cameras snapping, turned his movement into a handshake.</p>
<p class="txt">The next venue afforded a conversation between Meghan and Márquez.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-726" id="en0-726" role="doc-noteref">726</a></sup> Harry sat alone in the nearly empty stalls of a theatre as Márquez introduced Meghan, who was now wearing a Mango shirt, a £1,634 Silvia Tcherassi sequin skirt and magenta Manolo Blahnik heels. Stressing the financial obstacles facing her community, Márquez spoke about Colombia’s black population needing special financial help.The Sussexes, explained the vice president, were expected to make a serious donation to match George Soros’s Open Society’s donations. Meghan did not mention that Archewell’s total budget in 2024 was less than $2 million. Open Society’s was $400 million.</p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring the appeal for money, Meghan replied in Spanish about the need for ‘Colombian women to empower each other’. Women’s voices, <span id="page_319"/>said Meghan standing next to the female vice president, ‘are not being heard’. Then Meghan moved on to speak about herself. Firstly, she reiterated the bogus story about her campaign as an eleven-year-old to pressurise Procter &amp; Gamble to change the script of their advertisement for Ivory Clear washing-up liquid from ‘Women all over America are fighting greasy pots and pans’ to ‘People all over America’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-727" id="en0-727" role="doc-noteref">727</a></sup> and then she promoted Archewell for being ‘very, very dedicated to creating a sense of community’.</p>
<p class="txt">Her source of inspiration, said Meghan, was her mother – the same mother who had disappeared for long periods throughout her school years. In reply, Márquez described how her mother had lost her fingerprints while working in a mine. One result was that she could not obtain a passport to travel. Women and children in Colombia, continued Márquez, faced random violence – rape, beatings and murder.</p>
<p class="txt">Taking the microphone, Meghan told her Afro-Colombian audience the cure to their hardship: ‘wash things over with love, kindness and generosity’. Only Harry in her audience would have known about Meghan’s treatment of her father, her friends and her ‘bullied’ staff.</p>
<p class="txt">Concluding what <em>Harper’s</em> described as ‘a powerful conversation’, Meghan focused on herself again: ‘I’m looking at this time as my chapter of joy. My intentionality is to enjoy this chapter and be able to love through every piece of this as best we can.’ In her audience were eyewitnesses of local drug abuse, torture, rape and murder. As she intoned with a smile the Brené Brown meme, ‘There is something so liberating about being able to be yourself and be comfortable in your skin; and be surrounded in a space that is excited to see you exactly the way you are,’ the audience appeared unsure how to react.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-728" id="en0-728" role="doc-noteref">728</a></sup> And then, with another big smile, Meghan moved on to her core message: being ‘a mom’. Lilibet, Meghan enthused, has ‘found her voice and we are so proud of that’. Meghan seemed unaware about the bathos of her sentiments, which she would repeat many times.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-729" id="en0-729" role="doc-noteref">729</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_320"/>Few in the audience could understand how a three-year-old’s words in Montecito equated with Márquez’s plight. ‘Something very painful for me,’ explained Márquez in her final contribution, ‘are the 6,000 young people assassinated every year in Colombia. I think of my two children who I had to send out of the country because of threats to their lives.’ Meghan’s expression suggested that she was totally unaware of Márquez’s personal pain of being separated from her sons – the only safeguard from the widespread murder of Colombian children. Tone-deaf, Meghan responded to her host, ‘Colombia is a beacon of culture and innovation.’ The meeting ended in disarray. Márquez’s appeal to Meghan for a donation appeared to be ignored.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-730" id="en0-730" role="doc-noteref">730</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After another clothes swap – the eighteenth in four days – Meghan appeared at an Afro-Colombian music festival in a green dress made by the Colombian designer, Andrés Otálora. As usual, during the four days, the ‘What Meghan Wore’ website identified the shops selling the clothes she had selected for the trip.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-731" id="en0-731" role="doc-noteref">731</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">It was the moment for Márquez to pounce. In front of a crowd excited by the fevered music, the vice president stood with the Sussexes and the mayor to challenge Harry. As one of the world’s campaigners for reparations to ‘repair the historical debt owed’ from the colonial powers, Márquez asked Harry to comment. The Prince obliged. He denounced the ‘unjust’ system that had generated wealth for the British Crown from ‘enslaved people’. Márquez smiled. She was satisfied. Harry smiled. No one in Britain, he would have surely assumed, would hear about his disloyal comments. Thankfully, he would soon be returning to his sun-blessed mansion overlooking the ocean.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-732" id="en0-732" role="doc-noteref">732</a></sup> As usual during the four days, the ‘What Meghan Wore’ website identified the shops selling the clothes she wore that evening.</p>
<p class="txt">Although the majority of Colombians remained unaware of the Sussexes’ visit, Andrea Alfonso reported a ‘success’ and anticipated Archewell contributing millions of dollars to Márquez’s projects.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-733" id="en0-733" role="doc-noteref">733</a></sup> <span id="page_321"/>Although the Sussexes bombarded the media with announcements of their generosity,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-734" id="en0-734" role="doc-noteref">734</a></sup> Archewell’s annual accounts revealed their donation of just $8,310.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-735" id="en0-735" role="doc-noteref">735</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan was delighted by the trip.Every day, websites and the mainstream media in America and Britain had featured Eric Charbonneau’s photographs of her in all the different outfits alongside her smiling husband. Fortunately, none reported the patchy reception by the small groups inside the schools and venues. Triumphantly, the Sussexes had orchestrated the image of a radiant British royal couple on a ‘state’ tour.</p>
<p class="txt">On the plane back to California, the Sussexes’ publicist Ashley Hansen collapsed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-736" id="en0-736" role="doc-noteref">736</a></sup> Stressed by the long hours, suffering anxiety and depression, she had faced a challenge to balance her life with the Sussexes’ demands. The negative agenda about her employers seeping into the public consciousness from British newspapers and social media, plus the strained conversations with journalists, had drained her. During the return flight, she later said, ‘The flight attendant thought I was actually dead. I was so out hard sleeping, I did not move the entire time.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-737" id="en0-737" role="doc-noteref">737</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By the time Hansen finally awoke, another of the Sussexes’ employees was already planning her resignation.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>