<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 36</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct36" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct36"><span id="page_322"/>CHAPTER 36</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Sidelined</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">At 4.29pm on Monday 11th September 2024, Kensington Palace released a three-minute glossy video showing the Princess of Wales with her family celebrating the end of her chemotherapy treatment. ‘The last nine months have been incredibly tough for us as a family,’ she said emotionally. ‘The cancer journey is complex, scary, unpredictable for everyone, especially for those closest to you.’</p>
<p class="txt">The video was criticised by some as syrupy but no one could dispute Kate’s desire to terminate the malicious online speculation about her health: ‘With humility, it also brings you face to face with your own vulnerabilities in a way you have never considered before . . . and be grateful for the simple yet important things in life which so many of us take for granted. Of simply loving and being loved.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-738" id="en0-738" role="doc-noteref">738</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Exactly 100 minutes later, in the now-familiar tit-for-tat battle, the Montecito publicists responded. At 18.09, Netflix released a video to promote Harry’s polo series starting in December.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-739" id="en0-739" role="doc-noteref">739</a></sup> The emphasis was on Harry who ‘with unprecedented access gives a glimpse into the sport of kings’. Since Harry had refused to participate in any of the matches and was practically invisible until the last episode, everyone had agreed to a low-key release. ‘We’ve got a giant clunker,’ was the sentiment inside Netflix’s headquarters. ‘It’s a runny omelette,’ sniped one executive.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-740" id="en0-740" role="doc-noteref">740</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_323"/>Bela Bajaria, Netflix’s head of content, had signed off on the series. She would be judged by far broader metrics than the success or failure of any one show, especially one as minor as Harry’s. Netflix had suffered serious big-budget failures including <em>Marco Polo</em> and <em>The Ridiculous</em> <em>6</em> without consequences. Flops could be absorbed by a corporation producing content on a massive scale while its subscription base grew and annual revenue headed in 2024 towards $39 billion.</p>
<p class="txt">Both Bajaria and Ted Sarandos acknowledged that Harry and Meghan were no longer Netflix’s ‘golden duo’, but they brought value to Netflix’s stable. When trying to persuade other celebrities to make a show with the streamer, Netflix cited their trusted relationship with the Sussexes. Meghan, Sarandos said, ‘is underestimated in terms of her influence on culture. People are fascinated with Meghan Markle.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-741" id="en0-741" role="doc-noteref">741</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Sensing Bajaria’s disillusionment, Meghan had persuaded Harry to let the polo series disappear. Harry would refuse to do any promotional interviews and not even host a screening. The Sussexes’ priority was Meghan’s new homemaker series. On the eve of his fortieth birthday, Harry agreed. Sidelined in Colombia, the reality of his isolation from his family and Britain had hit him two weeks earlier.</p>
<p class="txt">Unannounced, Harry had secretly flown to London to attend his uncle-in-law’s memorial service in Snettisham in Norfolk. Eighty-two-year-old Robert Fellowes had played a critical role as the Queen’s private secretary when Diana died, not only giving controversial advice to the Royal Family about their conduct but also consoling his wife Jane Spencer, Diana’s sister. Since that fateful night in 1997, Jane had become Harry’s surrogate mother, watching his matches at Eton and acting as godmother to Archie. As Harry’s allies, not least at the recent service in St Paul’s for the Invictus Games, the Spencers encouraged Harry’s defiance of his father. Charles had never been forgiven by the Spencers for his neglect of Diana.</p>
<p class="txt">Across the aisle from Harry in the small fourteenth-century church <span id="page_324"/>sat William. The brothers had not spoken for nearly two years. They continued to ignore each other. Their feud continued at the wake in a marquee. Harry stayed overnight in Britain without making any attempt to contact or visit his father in Balmoral. The following day, he flew back to Los Angeles.</p>
<p class="txt">The belated newspaper reports of his unexpected visit sparked speculation that Harry was looking for a return to Britain. Swiftly, Harry ordered his spokeswoman to scotch the suggestion. Harry, said Hansen, had ‘no interest’ in Britain. His future was among his new friends and new interests in California.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-742" id="en0-742" role="doc-noteref">742</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The latest opinion polls reported that Harry remained popular among Americans – 49 per cent, stated YouGov, were positive and only 24 per cent negative. By comparison, only 38 per cent of Americans were positive about Charles and 33 per cent were negative. To Harry’s irritation, 54 per cent were positive about William and only 14 per cent negative.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-743" id="en0-743" role="doc-noteref">743</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The bad news was Harry’s unpopularity in Britain. Only 26 per cent said they were positive about him, while 75 per cent were positive about William and 63 per cent were positive about Charles; and 60 per cent of those polled were either opposed or undecided whether Harry should resume any royal duties in Britain.</p>
<p class="txt">Visiting journalists nosily seeking titbits about Harry’s life in Montecito were reminded of his feud in the recently opened local bookshop, Godmothers, co-owned by Jennifer Rudolph Walsh, Harry’s literary agent, and the cosmetics manufacturer Victoria Jackson. Prominently displayed on the shelf for ‘Hometown Heroes’ was his autobiography.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-744" id="en0-744" role="doc-noteref">744</a></sup> Clearly, Harry was proud of his book despite the anger his disclosures had generated in London. No one at Penguin Random House ever heard the author voice any regrets about his subversive agenda. That was reinforced during the summer as James Holt organised an international media blitz to move Harry out of Meghan’s shadow, <span id="page_325"/>assert Harry’s global importance and further embarrass his family. And then his campaign was delayed. Unexpectedly, another torpedo was heading towards Brand Sussex.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Why Hollywood Keeps Quitting on Harry and Meghan’ was the <em>Hollywood Reporter</em>’s headline on 11th September 2024, prompted by the resignation of their publicist Christine Weil Schirmer. ‘They’ve chewed up yet another American advisor,’ said an observer.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-745" id="en0-745" role="doc-noteref">745</a></sup> ‘Everyone’s terrified of Meghan,’ an insider told the magazine. ‘She belittles people, marching around, barking orders like “a dictator in high heels”.’ Meghan’s ‘barks’, added the recently departed employee, reduced ‘grown men to tears’. Another ex-employee confirmed that ‘everyone is terrified of Meghan Markle’. Describing the Sussexes’ behaviour, the source added: ‘She doesn’t take advice. They are both poor decision-makers who change their minds frequently.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-746" id="en0-746" role="doc-noteref">746</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Until then, few in America had believed the 2018 British media’s allegations of a toxic atmosphere at Kensington Palace caused by Meghan’s bullying of her staff. Newspaper columnists on the <em>New York Times</em> and elsewhere had accepted the Sussexes’ riposte that they were victims of a ‘calculated smear campaign’ inspired by the Royal Family’s racism.</p>
<p class="txt">Many would have even listened to Meghan’s self-justification at the time on her <em>Archetypes</em> podcast: ‘I find myself cowering and tiptoeing into a room and – the thing I find most embarrassing – when you’re saying a sentence and the intonation goes up, and you’re like, “Oh my God, stop whispering and tiptoeing around it. Just say what it is you need. You’re allowed to be clear. It doesn’t make you demanding. It doesn’t make you difficult, it makes you clear.”’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-747" id="en0-747" role="doc-noteref">747</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">However, compounding the damage done by the <em>Hollywood Reporter</em> headline, the <em>Daily Beast</em> found another eyewitness. She described Meghan as a boss who became a ‘demon when the worm turns’. That insider said about the Sussexes, ‘There definitely were bad, very bad, <span id="page_326"/>even psycho moments. I witnessed people being chewed up in person and over the phone and made to feel like shit.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-748" id="en0-748" role="doc-noteref">748</a></sup> In Britain, there was pleasure among the expanding Sussex Survivors Club that ‘Duchess Difficult’ had once again failed to suppress stories of her bullying.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan claimed that she was oblivious to any criticism because she could ‘tune out the negative noise’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-749" id="en0-749" role="doc-noteref">749</a></sup> Frequently, she repeated Georgia O’Keefe’s quip, ‘I have already settled it for myself, so flattery and criticism go down the same drain and I am quite free.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-750" id="en0-750" role="doc-noteref">750</a></sup> Few believed she was so thick-skinned.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan ordered Ashley Hansen to launch a detoxification counter-attack. Contacting Dan Wakeford, the friendly editor of the tabloid magazine <em>US Weekly</em> and formerly of <em>People</em> magazine, Hansen denounced the <em>Hollywood Reporter</em>’s quotations as ‘fabricated’. Under the headline ‘The Truth About Meghan: Her Staff Break Their Silence’, she placed fawning accolades by former members of Meghan’s staff about their saintly employer.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-751" id="en0-751" role="doc-noteref">751</a></sup> ‘The best boss ever, was wonderful to work for,’ attested one ex-employee. Staff were given baskets of freshly cut flowers, fruit and eggs from the Sussexes’ rescue chickens to take home, said another. She made her team ‘feel like seeds being watered’ said a third. Staff were grateful that when a great idea was offered at a meeting, ‘she makes sure to give props to the person who generated the idea.’ When Meghan heard that an employee had adopted a dog, she instantly sent a ‘luxury-brand leash and a new collar’.</p>
<p class="txt">Mandana Dayani, employed for eighteen months until 2022, described being treated to ‘incredible lunches’ and Meghan’s ‘latest beautiful concoctions’ during their weekly meetings in Montecito. Catherine St-Laurent attested that her eleven months with Meghan had been ‘incredibly meaningful’. Like the others, St-Laurent was silent about the cause of her abrupt departure. Even Josh Kettler swooned that the Sussexes were ‘dedicated and hard-working’ and he had been ‘warmly welcomed’. He steadfastly refused to reveal why he had abruptly <span id="page_327"/>quit – or was fired. He also omitted any relationship with the Sussexes in his updated online biography.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-752" id="en0-752" role="doc-noteref">752</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Only Ashley Hansen herself recalled how she herself was treated ‘with love and care’ when she asked for time off work for surgery. Meghan had sent flowers and care packages. And yet despite her positive comments, amid the hysteria inside Meghan’s home, like her predecessors, Hansen too woke up to the reality of life with the Sussexes. She prepared to announce her own departure from Archewell and reset her life by fleeing to a remote retreat barring all contact with the outside world. She was the twentieth major resignation since the Sussexes set up their business.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-753" id="en0-753" role="doc-noteref">753</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In a move likely to divert attention from Meghan’s crisis, Bryony Gordon, a British journalist who had confessed to having suffered from alcoholism, depression and drug addiction and was an advocate of Harry’s,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-754" id="en0-754" role="doc-noteref">754</a></sup> was invited to visit Montecito. The Sussexes’ trusted messenger described ‘a pretty ordinary couple existing in an absolutely extraordinary situation. There’s no airs or graces with them.’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-755" id="en0-755" role="doc-noteref">755</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">There were certainly no special celebrations on Harry’s fortieth birthday. Unlike the riotous black-tie dinner for his thirtieth birthday at Clarence House, ten years later there were few friends to invite in Montecito and no one was welcomed into their home. Harry just gave the BBC a statement: ‘I was anxious about thirty. I’m excited about forty. Whatever my age, my mission is to continue showing up and doing good in the world.’ On the Palace website, Charles and the Waleses simply wished ‘The Duke of Sussex a Happy 40th’. Neither signed off with their names.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-756" id="en0-756" role="doc-noteref">756</a></sup> Their post was illustrated with a photo of Harry taken in 2018. Meghan had been cropped out of it.</p>
<p class="txt">After taking his children to school and cycling with David ‘Langers’ Langdown, his security guard, Harry’s publicist fed speculation that he would spend the evening hiking in the Santa Ynez Mountains with his polo friend Nacho Figueras.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-757" id="en0-757" role="doc-noteref">757</a></sup> Days later, he posted an Instagram video <span id="page_328"/>of himself spending the day at the joyless Kelly Slater’s Surf Ranch in Lemoore, California.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was fed up. Not just with his family but also with his fate. The trips to Nigeria and Colombia had cast him as yet another ‘spare’, the second fiddle, the support for Meghan’s brand. What had been mutual survival and then mutual interest had become his separate survival. There was a lot of gossip that he and Meghan were on divergent paths. The combination of his family’s perfunctory messages and her self-interest appeared to incentivise Harry to strike deep to reassert himself.</p>
<p class="txt">The Prince’s revival started at the annual fundraiser for Santa Barbara’s emergency services hosted by Kevin Costner. Ten days after the <em>Hollywood Reporter</em>’s derision, Meghan disappointed the hosts by failing to appear at the One805Live! concert in Montecito, despite accepting the invitation. ‘She looked bored to tears last year,’ admitted an organiser. A ‘sick child’ was the excuse. But Harry’s presence was a ‘big plus’ for those paying $1,600 for a ticket.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-758" id="en0-758" role="doc-noteref">758</a></sup> He enjoyed mingling with first responders and supporting his community. Presenting an award to a helicopter pilot, Harry joked that he felt more comfortable flying a helicopter than speaking on stage. ‘He really was terrific,’ volunteered the organiser.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry arrived alone in New York. To relaunch himself as a philanthropist, he appeared at eleven public engagements over the following twelve days. But first his publicists sought to wipe out the gossip about Meghan’s tyranny – and the speculation about their marriage problems.</p>
<p class="txt">The publicists’ theme had taken days to finesse: ‘What we are seeing is a functional and healthy relationship with two working partners – not the contrary,’ said their publicist. The friendly <em>People</em> magazine ‘revealed’ their supposedly shrewd PR move: the Sussexes had evolved a ‘twin-track approach’ – he was into philanthropy while Meghan focused on her business.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-759" id="en0-759" role="doc-noteref">759</a></sup> British diplomats were impressed by his itinerary. <span id="page_329"/>‘A canny operator,’ one said. Harry was using ‘backdoor’ diplomacy to assert his royal position.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s first speech at the Clinton Global Initiative highlighted the fatal impact of social media on ‘thousands’ of vulnerable children.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-760" id="en0-760" role="doc-noteref">760</a></sup> All the young children projected on to a screen behind him, he told his audience – which included Bill Clinton, Bill Nelson, the head of NASA, Queen Mathilde of Belgium and Laurene Jobs, the widow of Apple’s co-founder – were dead. Social media was to blame. Calling for ‘compassion rather than hate’, he urged his audience that, ‘As long as we are debating over lies, we will forever be divided.’ Some would question how the author of <em>Spare</em>, a book of hate, justified that appeal. Others would question Harry’s statement: ‘The Archewell Foundation and me and my wife believe that information integrity is a fundamental right.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-761" id="en0-761" role="doc-noteref">761</a></sup> Seventeen untrue statements in the Oprah Winfrey interview undermined that pronouncement. And two High Court judges in London had openly suspected Harry’s veracity.</p>
<p class="txt">In quick succession, he went to a dinner hosted by the World Health Organization to honour survivors of childhood violence; made a speech to the Halo Trust founded by Diana and presented awards for winners of Diana’s foundation; and made a speech on climate change and promoted Travalyst alongside Bill Gates in the ‘Titan’ category of <em>Time</em> magazine’s ‘100 most influential leaders’ on climate action. In contrast, Prince William and his 2024 Earthshot Prize were ignored by <em>Time</em>’s editors.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-762" id="en0-762" role="doc-noteref">762</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Potentially the most difficult event was the African Parks presentation at the Metropolitan Club chaired by the American journalist Katie Couric. The media was excluded from hearing the panel’s discussion about a $1 billion ‘action plan’ to achieve African Parks’ ‘ambitious goals and measurable successes in combating climate change, protecting vital ecosystems and enhancing local livelihoods in Africa’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-763" id="en0-763" role="doc-noteref">763</a></sup> Harry preferred to be protected from questions by the media at the very time <span id="page_330"/>that new allegations of abuse, rape and torture in the Congo surfaced.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-764" id="en0-764" role="doc-noteref">764</a></sup> Under pressure from Survival International to resign, Harry’s office replied that the New York event ‘showcased the transformative work the organisation is undertaking across the continent, emphasising their innovative “conservation at scale” initiatives’. The organisation denied any abuse of tribesmen and claimed that all ‘allegations of misconduct are thoroughly investigated and acted on’. Harry’s critics were unconvinced. ‘Harry has neither the tools nor the experience to navigate out of the crisis,’ said an insider.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-765" id="en0-765" role="doc-noteref">765</a></sup> Instead, Harry endorsed African Parks’ expansion plans by joining the board of directors, one of eight white men with one white woman.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-766" id="en0-766" role="doc-noteref">766</a></sup> However, he did not oppose African Parks’ commissioning of an investigation into the allegations by Cherie Blair’s law firm, Omnia Strategy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-767" id="en0-767" role="doc-noteref">767</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry arrived thirty minutes late at his last formal event. Organised by the Lesotho delegation to the United Nations, it was to support Sentebale. Smiling, he embraced Queen Masenate Mohato Seeiso and other members of the royal family. He was among friends. ‘I wish I could spend more time in Africa,’ he said. ‘I have this sense of complete relaxation and normality in Africa.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-768" id="en0-768" role="doc-noteref">768</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Not mentioned was his failure to visit Lesotho for five years, despite him saying, ‘Africa’s in my soul.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-769" id="en0-769" role="doc-noteref">769</a></sup> Since Harry’s marriage in 2018, said Chief Khoabane Theko, Seeiso’s brother who lived near a Sentebale centre, ‘I haven’t seen him.’ Harry’s fading attention, said Theko, had ‘killed the spirit of the charity’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-770" id="en0-770" role="doc-noteref">770</a></sup> Contrary to Buckingham Palace’s original proposal in 2018 for the Sussexes to live as philanthropists in South Africa, Meghan’s apparent preference for not living in Africa had outrightly sabotaged the plan carefully organised by Christopher Geidt and the Foreign Office.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-771" id="en0-771" role="doc-noteref">771</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To boost Harry’s street credibility, James Holt had arranged two more engagements. In a filmed visit to an East Side tattoo parlour, Harry declined to have one on his neck. ‘I was thinking like my lower back or <span id="page_331"/>my arse,’ he told the tattooist Jelly Roll. ‘No one,’ Roll replied, ‘wants to see your arse, Harry.’ Next, he made an appearance to mark Hallowe’en on Jimmy Fallon’s <em>Tonight Show</em>. Walking through the set – a haunted maze – he screamed ‘Jesus Fuck!’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-772" id="en0-772" role="doc-noteref">772</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">His next stop was London. No protection officers were waiting at Heathrow and the Palace had not offered him any accommodation. His successful appearance in Lancaster Gate at the WellChild awards to celebrate the resilience of seriously ill children renewed speculation that he would fly to Scotland to meet the King. But Harry did not approach his father.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-773" id="en0-773" role="doc-noteref">773</a></sup> The following morning, he flew to Lesotho. It was a make-or-break moment.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>