<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 37</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct37" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct37"><span id="page_332"/>CHAPTER 37</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Sentebale</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">In her ‘Return to South Africa’ plan, Sophie Chandauka had arranged for Harry to host a fundraising programme for Sentebale in Lesotho. While Harry’s publicist briefed that he would go for a prolonged trip away from the strife in Los Angeles and London to live in the bush, his true mission was to recover control of Sentebale. That objective had begun in May 2024, just days after his return from Nigeria.</p>
<p class="txt">Sentebale, Harry had been persuaded, could only survive as part of the Archewell brand. The obstacle to that reorganisation was Chandauka. Her insistence on obeying the governance rules for charities challenged his authority. Indeed, it seemed to Harry that Chandauka was using these rules as a weapon to assert herself. For Harry, anyone refusing total sycophancy was cast as an opponent. Ever since the Florida polo match, Chandauka had fallen into that category. Harry knew she would refuse to allow a charity to become a branch of Archewell. Hitherto, the public had never known or witnessed Harry’s treatment of those who refused to bow to his orders. That was about to change.</p>
<p class="txt">At Sentebale’s board meeting on Zoom on 24th May, Harry unexpectedly announced that his good friend Brian Satz, a music director and event producer from New Jersey, would join the board. As the leader of the American friends of Sentebale, Satz had raised <span id="page_333"/>£593,508 for the charity. Harry’s announcement ‘shocked’ Chandauka. All the rules of governance, she protested, had been ignored: Satz’s appointment was not on the agenda, Harry refused any time for discussion and Satz had never been to South Africa. But within five minutes of Harry’s announcement, Mark Dyer declared, ‘As no one has voted against Brian’s appointment, it’s been approved. This meeting’s over.’ All the Zoom screens went blank. Chandauka was outraged by the coup.‘This is not how we will do things,’ Chandauka emailed to the board members. She was ignored. Harry, she believed, was tolerating her as ‘window dressing’, but she feared she would become the fall guy if anything went wrong.</p>
<p class="txt">Within one hour, Satz sent his photograph and biography to be posted on Sentebale’s website. ‘This was not a valid appointment,’ Chandauka replied with a copy of the governance rules.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Who do you think you are?’ emailed Dyer. ‘This is what Harry wanted.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘This isn’t how we do things,’ Chandauka shot back. As a patron, Harry was not a board member, she wrote. Harry had no authority to propose Satz. The Prince had ignored the rules.</p>
<p class="txt">Four weeks later, on the eve of the June board meeting, Satz emailed all the board members, ‘I’m a member of the board and Harry wants me to attend the meeting.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘Your appointment was invalid,’ Chandauka replied.</p>
<p class="txt">‘This is very offensive,’ Satz countered.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry had introduced Josh Kettler, before he resigned as his chief of staff, into the dispute. Back and forth in Zoom meetings, Kettler had urged Chandauka to accept Satz. Forlornly, Kettler admitted that he had never read the governance rules and retreated, only to be ordered by Harry to resume the fight. The Zoom meetings ended with Kettler’s defeat. At Harry’s request, Dyer entered the fray in a manner which an eyewitness called ‘disrespectful and provocative’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-774" id="en0-774" role="doc-noteref">774</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_334"/>The crunch battle occurred at the July board meeting on Zoom. The atmosphere, Chandauka reported, was ‘hostile. I didn’t feel safe with Dyer and West.’ Previous agreements were being distorted or ignored. Harry’s conduct was particularly difficult. Sentebale, he insisted, should leave Botswana because President Mokgweetsi Masisi ‘didn’t treat me well’. And after the key fundraising polo match in the Dominican Republic was cancelled, Harry refused to arrange an alternative match. He would only appear, he insisted, if Sentebale was guaranteed a profit above £500,000 – an impossible target.</p>
<p class="txt">Those were the curtain-raisers as Harry arrived in Lesotho in October 2024. He and Chandauka had not spoken since the Florida polo match. After a ‘frosty and crotchety’ greeting, Harry announced in a noticeably dismissive manner that any further communication between the two should be channelled through his assistant, Beth Herlihy, and ordered that he was not to be photographed with Chandauka. Over the following six days, Harry never spoke to Chandauka. In Harry’s version, Chandauka refused to speak to him.</p>
<p class="txt">Upset by the tension, Chandauka noted Harry’s refusal to be briefed about the charity’s growing financial crisis. The charity had less than £1 million in the bank and donations would not equal the £4.5 million raised in 2022. Established financial backers in Africa and Europe had resisted giving money after Harry’s attacks on the Royal Family. The Sussex brand, Chandauka believed, had become ‘toxic’. The only hope was new American financiers but attracting young American philanthropists was difficult.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-775" id="en0-775" role="doc-noteref">775</a></sup> Rich white men riding horses was no longer the right image to raise money for disadvantaged black communities. ‘We really didn’t know whether we would raise the money,’ Chandauka admitted.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-776" id="en0-776" role="doc-noteref">776</a></sup> And one revelation raised questions about Harry’s true commitment.</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka discovered that a potential American donor to Sentebale had been approached by an Archewell employee. He was <span id="page_335"/>asked to donate his money to the Sussexes’ new non-profit organisations rather than Sentebale. Another potential donor was apparently persuaded to contribute to Travalyst rather than Sentebale.</p>
<p class="txt">New donors had to be found, and were, by an American consultant, Alix Lebec. Hired by Chandauka for about £20,000 a month to introduce potential donors, Lebec had produced eight potential American contributors to visit Lesotho with Harry. For Harry and Dyer, Chandauka’s strategy of spending large sums on consultants without any guarantee of donations seemed risky, but her self-confidence silenced their questions. In her scenario, much depended on Harry’s performance in Lesotho during the four-day visit.</p>
<p class="txt">On the first day, a power blackout across Maseru, the capital, produced mixed reactions. ‘It was really humbling,’ recalled Ki Smith, a gallery owner from New York. ‘And I think that that was a really great way to transition into an incredible trip.’ Other potential donors were less impressed. Harry, one decided, was adrift. He looked helpless. Another noticed that during a visit to a village, no one recognised the Prince. One American agreed to make a substantial donation. Ki Smith warmed to Harry. ‘This is someone that really cares,’ he decided.</p>
<p class="txt">The climax of the trip was a dinner in Johannesburg’s Saxon Hotel. Chandauka and Iain Rawlinson, the former banker attached to Global Philanthropic, had pulled every lever to attract about thirty influential South African corporate players and prospective donors, including the chief executives of Google and South African Breweries.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-777" id="en0-777" role="doc-noteref">777</a></sup> The costs were borne by a New York law firm. The following day, another thirty influential South Africans gathered at the hotel to discuss Sentebale’s role in relieving the plight of children in South Africa. Both Chandauka and Rawlinson hailed the event as a success, except that Harry had refused to stay overnight. Instead, he flew to Rwanda by private jet for a board meeting of African Parks.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-778" id="en0-778" role="doc-noteref">778</a></sup> He had left Johannesburg without thanking Chandauka or acknowledging Rawlinson’s efforts. Both concluded that <span id="page_336"/>Harry’s attachment to African Parks was motivated by his personal relationships with billionaires, despite the damage to his brand.</p>
<p class="txt">By the time Harry returned to Montecito, he was committed to bringing Sentebale under his control. Chandauka, he decided, would be replaced by Brian Satz. Harry knew he could rely on the support of all his hand-picked trustees, including the 82-year-old former Conservative politician Lynda Chalker. Apparently unable to master Zoom technology, Chalker rarely joined board meetings.</p>
<p class="txt">The trigger for Harry’s coup was Chandauka’s decision that his old friends Mark Dyer and Damian West should resign as trustees. Both had served nearly eighteen years, double the number of years recommended under the governance rules. Their removal, Chandauka decided, became more urgent after Dyer criticised her fundraising campaign as ‘pointless’ and ‘a failure’. Tellingly, one potential American donor told Chandauka that Harry had called. He had hinted that Chandauka would be removed as chairwoman in the near future.</p>
<p class="txt">An explosion erupted at Sentebale’s October board meeting. ‘It was ugly, awful,’ Chandauka recalled. ‘Harry, Dyer and West challenged everything. In front of everyone, they shouted at me, interrupted me and were rude.’ Iain Rawlinson witnessed Chandauka subjected to Dyer’s aggressive questioning and disrespect. Dyer retorted that Chandauka could not answer the existential question: how could the charity survive when its income had plummeted? Chandauka might have had good ideas, said Dyer, but the strategy had failed. The £1 million in the bank when Chandauka arrived had nearly disappeared. After a lifesaving £750,000 donation had been withheld, the charity faced a deficit of £1.2 million, projected to increase within four months to £1.6 million. ‘I feel disrespected and undermined,’ Chandauka snapped back. Harry ignored her complaint. He wanted her fired.</p>
<p class="txt">‘They unleashed the Sussex machine on me,’ Chandauka complained.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-779" id="en0-779" role="doc-noteref">779</a></sup> In her opinion, Harry, Dyer and other white privileged men <span id="page_337"/>were undermining a black woman. That imbalance of power, thought Chandauka, amounted to bullying. For their part, Harry and Dyer portrayed Chandauka as ‘a bully, a racist and out for revenge’. On 7th November, Chandauka emailed Harry complaining about the ‘appalling treatment’ she had suffered. ‘I was being beaten up,’ she wrote. ‘I won’t tolerate being treated like this.’</p>
<p class="txt">Acting as a ‘whistle-blower’, the lawyer started a formal process accusing Harry of bullying her about funding. Her complaint was to an allegedly independent trustee, Tim Boucher. Within hours, Harry emailed Chandauka, ‘You can’t be a whistle-blower.’ The Prince denied that he was a bully and announced that he would personally preside over the investigation of her complaint. ‘You’re trying to destroy all the work we’ve done for twenty years,’ he added. Chandauka replied that the blame should be directed towards Dyer and Harry himself.</p>
<p class="txt">Unknown to Chandauka, with Harry’s authority, Dyer had asked Robert Oakley, the charity’s solicitor at Bates Wells, for advice on how to remove Chandauka. Despite the charity’s financial crisis, Bates Wells’ £66,000 invoice showed that Harry’s lawyers Schillings had activated Chandauka’s removal. By serving Harry, Bates Wells seemed unconcerned by a possible conflict of interest with his client, Sentebale.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Behind the scenes, something is happening,’ Chandauka told a colleague. ‘Harry’s trying to remove two black women.’ She meant Carmel Gaillard, the temporary chief executive, and her. The Prince’s battle to oust the lawyer was about to take an ugly twist.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>