<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 38</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct38" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct38"><span id="page_338"/>CHAPTER 38</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>American Hustle</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Meghan was also combatting allegations of bullying. ‘No one understands me,’ she wailed. So many prejudiced writers raked up her past to present a one-sided story in a piece in the <em>New York Post,</em> ignoring her great achievements.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-780" id="en0-780" role="doc-noteref">780</a></sup> Netflix insiders spoke of feeling ‘exhausted’ after working on Meghan’s lifestyle series. Some predicted that it was her ‘make or break’.</p>
<p class="txt">Still confused why her father, former school friends and so many in Britain had betrayed her, Meghan confided in two women friends about her inability to trust people or ‘let them into my life’. Blind to accusations of her own disloyalty and emotional manipulation of her family, friends and employees, she could not understand how so few respected her demand for privacy.</p>
<p class="txt">On 2nd October 2024, Meghan had arranged to speak at Girls Inc, a teenage mentorship programme in Santa Barbara, to celebrate the International Day of the Girl. At school, she told her audience, ‘I was one of the most bullied people in the world.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-781" id="en0-781" role="doc-noteref">781</a></sup> That surprised her father Thomas Markle and also her best school friend, Ninaki Priddy, and her teachers. None had ever previously heard Meghan complain of being bullied. Nor did they recognise her self-portrayal as ‘very lonely’ without any friends and ‘no one to sit with at lunch’. She seemed <span id="page_339"/>to have forgotten about her frequent appearances in school plays and membership of many clubs.</p>
<p class="txt">Days later, her publicists went into overdrive. To rebut the Duchess Difficult label, Meghan attended a fundraising gala for the Los Angeles Children’s Hospital. Meghan’s appearance had totally changed. Heavy make-up covered her puffy face; her hair was in loose waves rather than primed straight. She wore a red flesh-flashing Carolina Herrera gown with a thigh-high split last seen at a 2021 gala, and stood on the red carpet tightly holding the hand of her friend Kelly McKee Zajfen. Her publicists briefed that the Saturday night was her ‘Revenge Moment’. Just as Diana had worn a sensational black dress at London’s Serpentine Gallery on the night in 1994 that Charles would confess on television that he had had an adulterous relationship with Camilla Parker Bowles, Meghan sought to prove that she would not be cowed by allegations of aggressive behaviour.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-782" id="en0-782" role="doc-noteref">782</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">That comparison was picked up by the British TV personality Lizzie Cundy, who, by chance, was at the gala. Cundy had first met Meghan in London in 2013 during the actress’s search for fame. Over a drink, Meghan had confessed that she had failed to make a breakthrough in Hollywood and was searching for a British boyfriend.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-783" id="en0-783" role="doc-noteref">783</a></sup> Eleven years later, the previously unsuccessful actress was a global star, but in trouble. Cundy was certain that after standing on the red carpet, Meghan left the venue.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-784" id="en0-784" role="doc-noteref">784</a></sup> Meghan’s publicists confirmed that because of her tight schedule she had immediately returned to Montecito. Yet the gala’s publicist insisted that Meghan had stayed for the dinner and mingled afterwards with the guests. He could not explain why Cundy and others were certain that she was invisible that evening.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-785" id="en0-785" role="doc-noteref">785</a></sup> Either way, the appearance failed to bury more bad news.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-786" id="en0-786" role="doc-noteref">786</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Harry’s trust in the German film director who had been given access to him at the Invictus Games in Vancouver the year before – on the <span id="page_340"/>advice of his publicist – had proved misplaced. Ulrike Grunewald’s documentary <em>Harry: The Lost Prince</em> included an interview with Richard Mineards, a Montecito neighbour, who said, ‘I personally don’t think that Meghan is an asset to our community.’ Meghan did not recognise his criticism about her refusal ‘to get involved with the community’. Many staged photographs proved she had visited Montecito’s shops, restaurants and the farmers’ market. ‘Meghan feels hurt by a lot of people – but especially her neighbours,’ said her new spokeswoman. ‘She feels betrayed by them telling people this, rather than offering friendship and support.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-787" id="en0-787" role="doc-noteref">787</a></sup> To prove her resilience, Meghan arranged to appear alongside Tyler Perry at the Paley Center Honors gala in Beverly Hills. The dial still did not move.</p>
<p class="txt">On 5th November, Donald Trump swept to election victory, humiliating the Hollywood celebrities who had endorsed Kamala Harris. In a move that could be seen as trying to bury bad news, Netflix released the full trailer for the polo series that day. The ruse failed. ‘Harry and Meghan’s Projects Can’t Stop Flopping’ was <em>The Cut</em>’s headline. Other media outlets hastily panned the series as ‘tedious’ and a ‘dull indulgence’.</p>
<p class="txt">Even the previously sympathetic Tina Brown somersaulted. Meghan, she wrote, had ‘run out of road’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-788" id="en0-788" role="doc-noteref">788</a></sup> Coming down the track, Meghan knew, was a <em>Vanity Fair</em> article marking five years since the Sandringham summit. Since she was denied control over the content, she refused to co-operate with the magazine’s writer. She feared duplicity by former employees despite the non-disclosure agreements. There was worse to come.</p>
<p class="txt">Lurking were lawyers’ letters from the owners of ‘Royal Riviera’, a New York clothing studio trading for years under the name American Riviera Orchard, which was identical to Meghan’s proposed new brand. The New York company’s lawyers had protested to the government’s trademark agency that Meghan’s name breached their own patented <span id="page_341"/>trademark. The US Patent Office upheld their complaint. So far, Meghan had prevented outsiders discovering that setback – compounded by her failure to hire a chief executive for the business.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-789" id="en0-789" role="doc-noteref">789</a></sup> As she struggled to find solutions, a fake story about a removal truck spotted outside her house ignited rumours about her marriage.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-790" id="en0-790" role="doc-noteref">790</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Apparently, we’ve bought or moved house ten, twelve times,’ Harry joked in New York that week. ‘We’ve apparently divorced maybe ten, twelve times as well. It’s hard to keep up.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-791" id="en0-791" role="doc-noteref">791</a></sup> As a throwaway remark to a select audience, Harry added that he and Meghan had no intention of returning to Britain. That country, he said, was not safe for his wife and children, and their lifestyle in California was so much better. The previous year, Harry had told the High Court, ‘The UK is my home. The UK is central to the heritage of my children.’ Like Meghan, Harry could, when required, produce a masterful performance, as he had proved during that week in New York when he was seemingly co-operating with Sophie Chandauka.</p>
<p class="txt">On 4th December, fifty potential donors had been invited to a reception at the Ki Smith Gallery in New York’s Lower East Side as a fundraiser for Sentebale. The gallery was known for staging ‘guerrilla art’ exhibitions. The idea for the exhibition in New York had arisen at the polo match in April. A charity auction of African art held by Sotheby’s at the ground in Wellington had raised $148,060 instead of the expected $550,000.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-792" id="en0-792" role="doc-noteref">792</a></sup> But despite that failure, Ki Smith agreed to stage a fundraising exhibition in New York. Titled ‘Friend’, it featured op art over two floors. Smith agreed to donate any commission to the charity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-793" id="en0-793" role="doc-noteref">793</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Mingling with the guests, Harry knew the charity’s trustees had asked Chandauka to resign. She had refused. Now, all the trustees were on the verge of resignation. Lynda Chalker had already resigned, complaining that Chandauka was ‘almost dictatorial’ – a line which Chandauka said was written by Dyer. Clutching a glass of wine, Harry worked the <span id="page_342"/>room to meet guests, all of whom were unaware of the crisis. Nearby, Chandauka was also engaging the potential donors.</p>
<p class="txt">After Harry’s brief speech of thanks praising his charity’s ‘spirit of inclusivity and community’, Chandauka chaired a twenty-minute discussion. ‘It’s amazing to work with Prince Harry,’ she told the guests, ‘because he is so authentically connected to the organisation. He has a lot of energy; he has lots of ideas. He’s excited about the innovative ways of doing things. And you can’t ask for more.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-794" id="en0-794" role="doc-noteref">794</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">That night, Harry had no interest in resolving the conflict other than by removing Chandauka, which was encouraged by Dyer. No one cautioned Harry with realistic advice about avoiding a crisis. Least of all Meghan, who was preoccupied with her own survival. Just as infuriating was the Palace’s refusal to engage with him.</p>
<p class="txt">To prove that the Royal Family was immune to Harry’s subversion, Buckingham Palace was organising its biggest Christmas Day celebration at Sandringham. Over seventy members of the family were invited. Camilla, recovering from pneumonia, would light the brandy on a 22-pound Christmas pudding. Andrew was invited, despite the King having just sharply reduced his allowance and being faced by the latest embarrassment – the exposure of Andrew’s financial relationship with an alleged Chinese spy.</p>
<p class="txt">Demonstrating the Royal Family’s resilience, William was sent to Paris for the reopening ceremony of Notre-Dame, restored after the devastating fire in 2019. Diplomats arranged for William to meet President Trump, a fan of the monarchy. ‘He looked really nice,’ Trump said afterwards. ‘I told him that.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-795" id="en0-795" role="doc-noteref">795</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ retaliation was swift. The following day, their Christmas card featuring the first pictures of their two children was released.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-796" id="en0-796" role="doc-noteref">796</a></sup> To some it appeared that they were using their children to win sympathy, a ruse which annoyed Harry but Meghan was reportedly adamant. Her Netflix series and American Riviera Orchard <span id="page_343"/>brand would be launched in three weeks followed by her podcast series of interviews for Lemonada called <em>Confessions of a Female Founder</em>. In her search for good publicity, her children were vital props. Christmas was unusually stressful.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan and Harry had every reason to welcome the new year and a new start. To demonstrate their happiness, Meghan released a video of herself ‘joyfully’ running across Montecito’s empty beach on New Year’s Day and carving ‘2025’ in the sand. By the end of the day, her newly restored Instagram site had attracted 170,000 fans. By comparison, Gwyneth Paltrow had 8.7 million Instagram followers.</p>
<p class="txt">For the next twenty-four hours, Meghan held her breath. All the carping and criticism of the previous year would hopefully be buried. Her publicist was working flat out to showcase her as a global lifestyle grandee. Within days, Netflix would stream a glitzy 110-second trailer for <em>With Love, Meghan</em>.</p>
<p class="txt">Days of editing, re-editing and sound mixing had produced Meghan the celebrity star who ‘re-imagines the genre of lifestyle programming’. As a Duchess and a family homemaker, she promised to entertain with elegance. As a generous hostess she would ‘add beauty to our lives and, most importantly, help bring people together’. Meghan featured in eight episodes sharing with friends ‘candid conversations and top tips’. Focused on ‘things that are close to her heart’, viewers were promised that Meghan ‘loved surprising people with moments to let them know I was really thinking of them’. Filmed in a beautiful modern kitchen, surrounded by expensive utensils and cookware, ‘she shares some of her favourite tips and tricks for cooking, gardening, crafting and more.’ Cynics might observe that everything was coloured beige, except the Eton mess pudding and a carrot, but that did not undermine Meghan’s eager tease: ‘We’re not in pursuit of perfection. We’re in pursuit of joy.’ All her products, labelled American Riviera Orchard, would be for sale.</p>
<p class="txt">Her ‘super joyful’ signature item was a breakfast platter of fruit <span id="page_344"/>shaped like a rainbow, because ‘it makes the morning a lot more fun’. Some platters were filled with yogurt ‘clouds’ and some with flower sprinkles. All combined, in her words, ‘for a really sweet start to the weekend’. She added, ‘It’s a delight being able to be a present parent.’ Or, ‘as a woman, a mom and a wife’. Fortunately, no one had yet noticed one serious problem.</p>
<p class="txt">Launching the American Riviera Orchard product range – from dog biscuits to wine – would cost millions of dollars. Meghan had failed to find a financial backer willing to risk cash on her brand or hire a chief executive to organise the manufacture and distribution of her products. Finding investors, Meghan acknowledged, depended on improving her profile.</p>
<p class="txt">On 2nd January 2025, the Netflix trailer was streamed and racked up big audiences. Over 27,000 comments were posted within the first seventy-two hours. Overwhelmingly, the remarks were negative.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Thank you for loving me so much and celebrating with me,’ Meghan posted. Her future depended on never giving the slightest hint of taking any notice of the critics. She then disappeared from view. Five days later, a fire broke out in Pacific Palisades, a wooded residential area in Los Angeles. As the fire spread, Netflix delayed streaming the series until 4th March.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-797" id="en0-797" role="doc-noteref">797</a></sup> The fatal emergency engulfing 38,000 acres of California justified the postponement, but there was another reason. Netflix’s publicists had heard that <em>Vanity Fair</em>’s cover story to be published that week was crushing. Called ‘American Hustle’, the 8,000 words written by Anna Peele resurrected all the previous exposés describing the horror of working for ‘Meghan the Bully’, which began in <em>The Times</em> of London followed by <em>The Cut</em> and <em>The Hollywood Reporter</em>.</p>
<p class="txt"><em>Vanity Fair</em>’s informants reflected the Sussexes’ limitations and insecurities. Bereft of originality and ideas, Meghan blamed her staff for disappointments. ‘Meghan would become cold and withholding toward the person she perceived to be responsible,’ wrote Peele. Meghan’s<span id="page_345"/> bullying, complained one victim, was ‘really, really, really awful. Very painful’. She continued, ‘And when you’re not in, you are to be thrown to the wolves at any given moment. Really, like a Mean Girl teenager.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘She’d throw around phrases like “lack of accountability”, “disappointment” or “we know what you did, and yet we still decided to support you”. But when staff tried to get clarity, asking what exactly they had done wrong, she’d dismiss them with lines like, “I think it’s best we keep it to ourselves and not advertise it in front of the team. We’re here to protect you, not throw you under the bus.”’</p>
<p class="txt">Neither of the Sussexes could cope with criticism. One former employee said there was a ‘gnawing at your sense of self’, adding: ‘You don’t tell them “No”. I left because I couldn’t live with myself any more.’ Some members of the <em>Archetypes</em> team took extended breaks. One required therapy.</p>
<p class="txt">In the midst of the arguments with staff in their home, Harry failed to spot that Meghan’s anger was expressed without raising her voice. ‘Meghan has a habit of using a whisper shout,’ explained an eyewitness of her controlled rage. ‘So, when Harry is in the room, he just hears her talking normally and doesn’t understand why people describe her as aggressive.’ In reply to the complaints, Harry said, ‘Meghan is misunderstood.’</p>
<p class="txt">Just as humiliating for the couple were the anonymous comments from their neighbours calling them ‘the most entitled, disingenuous people on the planet’ for monetising their search for privacy. Asked for a comment, Meghan’s spokeswoman admitted that the couple found the article ‘distressing’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-798" id="en0-798" role="doc-noteref">798</a></sup> Not least because the brickbats were quoted across the world. ‘These claims,’ continued their spokeswoman, ‘rooted in anonymous, unverifiable sources, form part of a broader and deeply troubling agenda that seeks to dehumanise a woman who has consistently stood up for fairness, dignity and truth.’ The spokeswoman added, ‘The Duchess has faced years of unfounded attacks masked as journalism <span id="page_346"/>in a never-ending smear campaign, beginning only once she was affiliated with the institution. Meghan remains undeterred by the noise and firmly focused on her family and work.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-799" id="en0-799" role="doc-noteref">799</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The most far-fetched suggestion in the profile was Meghan’s proposal to a publisher to publish a book if she divorced. That was easily rebutted, but not the allegations of her unpopularity in Montecito. Although Sharon Stone had attested that ‘Harry and Meghan waved to people in the street,’ Meghan was not seen waving in Montecito or anywhere over the following two weeks. The focus had switched to Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s ‘life’s work’ was, he believed, about to be fulfilled. Six years earlier, he had pledged to hold the British press to account. As the self-appointed champion of the ‘voiceless’, he spoke about ‘slaying the dragon’, Rupert Murdoch. His principal target for destroying the mogul’s empire was Murdoch’s senior executive in Britain, Rebekah Brooks. Harry blamed her for unleashing private investigators to probe unlawfully into his life. He also accused her of permitting the destruction of millions of incriminating files stored in the newspapers’ computers. Brooks – and Murdoch’s corporation – vigorously denied Harry’s accusations.</p>
<p class="txt">Most believed Harry’s repeated pledge that he would not settle his claim before the trial, despite the damage to his family relationships. He was, he said, ‘the last person’ who could achieve accountability, to obtain closure for those who did not have the deep pockets to have their day in court. He ‘relished’ his day in court.</p>
<p class="txt">The ten-week trial was due to start on Monday 20th January 2025. That morning, the courtroom was packed in anticipation of a spectacular drama. Over the previous months, David Sherborne had prepared himself to destroy Brooks and other News Corp employees in cross-examination. He would cast them as liars involved in a ‘criminal enterprise’. Yet the star witness was still in Los Angeles. At the last minute, both sides were scrabbling to settle the case. News Corp wanted to protect its executives from public humiliation in cross-examination, <span id="page_347"/>while Harry’s insurers feared that even if he won the case, they would be liable to pay millions of pounds of costs. Taking millions of pounds on offer from News Corp to settle was too good to reject, and with pressure, the amount could be enormous.</p>
<p class="txt">As the deadline to settle the case was extended, on 22nd January Harry agreed to compromise. News Corp would admit ‘unlawful activity’ at the defunct <em>News of the World</em> but not by any <em>Sun</em> journalists under Brooks’s editorship.There was no admission of phone hacking, surveillance or misuse of private information by the <em>Sun</em>. Any ‘incidents’ of unlawful activities were done by private investigators on their own initiative. News Corp’s only admission was ‘serious intrusion’ of Harry’s privacy – the details of which remained unexplained. News Corp did not admit destroying any records. They only ‘acknowledged and apologised for the distress caused to the Duke, and the damage inflicted on relationships, friendships and family’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-800" id="en0-800" role="doc-noteref">800</a></sup> In return for backing down, News Corp paid Harry over £10 million. Much of that money would be grabbed by his insurers and lawyers.</p>
<p class="txt">Outside the court, Sherborne puffed up the settlement as a triumph against the <em>Sun</em>’s ‘criminal enterprise’. Hours later, News Corp’s lawyers condemned the barrister for his ‘hugely misleading . . . misquotations . . . and spin’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-801" id="en0-801" role="doc-noteref">801</a></sup> He had been unable to prove that News Corp had authorised any illegal activity against Harry or that they had deliberately destroyed evidence. Other newspapers mocked Harry for surrendering. The self-styled dragon slayer had ended his campaign with ‘a humiliating climbdown’, reported the <em>Daily Telegraph</em>. ‘His lofty aims and ideals appear rather hollow.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-802" id="en0-802" role="doc-noteref">802</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan was relieved. While she supported Harry 100 per cent, Meghan wanted Harry ‘to live in a world where he is not burdened by his past’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-803" id="en0-803" role="doc-noteref">803</a></sup> But most would have judged that she just wanted the focus wholly on herself.</p>
<p class="txt">At the end of January, Netflix had a preview launch in Los Angeles <span id="page_348"/>for the network’s new season, including Meghan’s imminent series. To remind the public about her series, she re-emerged as a ‘surprise’ guest at actress Kerry Washington’s forty-eighth birthday party.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-804" id="en0-804" role="doc-noteref">804</a></sup> The videos and smiling photos posted the following day of Meghan at the small party suggested that she had brushed aside the critics. As usual she looked great. But her trolls were remorseless. Some claimed she had gate-crashed the party and was kicked out.</p>
<p class="txt">The carping was an inauspicious curtain-raiser to Netflix’s launch of the 2025 season four days later in the Egyptian Theatre. Meghan had every reason to be fearful. Not only did her series <em>With Love, Meghan</em> fail to feature in Netflix’s glossy brochure, but Bela Bajaria did not even mention Meghan in her speech. Instead, the comedian John Mulaney offered a jaw-dropping surprise. After uttering a mocking aside about the dismal ratings registered for Harry’s polo series – ranked by Netflix at number 3,436 – Mulaney mentioned his own talk show series commissioned by Netflix. ‘This is a fun experiment,’ Mulaney said about his series. ‘Not since Harry and Meghan has Netflix given more money to someone without a specific plan.’ The audience roared.</p>
<p class="txt">Panic gripped the Sussexes’ home. The media grasped the derision heaped by Netflix’s former stand-up comedian star Katherine Ryan. She chided Meghan’s series as ‘highly inauthentic’, ‘fake’ and ‘phony’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-805" id="en0-805" role="doc-noteref">805</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s agent called Bajaria. Early the following day, Netflix’s chief content executive responded with an exaggerated post about how ‘excited’ she was with all the Sussexes’ projects. Meghan’s cookery show, Bajaria exclaimed, has ‘great takeaways’, especially her unusual recipe for spaghetti cooked in a frying pan: ‘I was like, “Oh My God, I really want to do that pasta.”’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-806" id="en0-806" role="doc-noteref">806</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Few were fooled. Meghan’s publicists suggested that the couple head down to Los Angeles to be seen comforting the victims of the widespread and devastating wildfires that had gripped the region. An Archewell cameraman was waiting for their arrival at a soup kitchen in Pasadena <span id="page_349"/>set up to help a group of homeless people. After recording a video of her listening and hugging victims, the scene was posted that day by the publicists to her now 1.6 million Instagram followers.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-807" id="en0-807" role="doc-noteref">807</a></sup> By nightfall, one of her publicists spotted another opportunity. A homeless fifteen-year-old girl from Altadena had mentioned her loss in the fire of a Billie Eilish T-shirt. After contacting her Montecito neighbours singer Adam Levine and his wife, Victoria’s Secret model Behati Prinsloo, Meghan had sent the girl not only an Eilish T-shirt but also a lunchbox and other signed merchandise. ‘I just wanted to share with you guys,’ Meghan gushed in a post on her Instagram site about her success.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-808" id="en0-808" role="doc-noteref">808</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Instead of getting credit for her efforts, Meghan was mocked as an attention-seeking pseudo-royal. Hollywood film-maker Justine Bateman carped online: ‘Meghan Markle and Harry are no better than ambulance chasers. What a repulsive “photo op” they achieved. They are “touring the damage”? Are they politicians now? They don’t live here; they are tourists. Disaster Tourists.’ Thousands shared Bateman’s post, followed by her next message awarding the couple a gold medal in their ‘very aggressive Victims Olympics campaign’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-809" id="en0-809" role="doc-noteref">809</a></sup> It was all a far cry from the <em>New York Times</em>’ praise of Meghan two years earlier as ‘accessible . . . just a working mom’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-810" id="en0-810" role="doc-noteref">810</a></sup> Every attempt to appear genuine rebounded on her.</p>
<p class="txt">Even President Trump could not resist taunting the Duchess. On8th February, he was asked by the <em>New York Post</em> whether he would deport Harry if he had inaccurately completed his visa application. ‘I don’t want to do that,’ replied the president. ‘I’ll leave him alone. He’s got enough problems with his wife. She’s terrible.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-811" id="en0-811" role="doc-noteref">811</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Silently, Harry could thank Trump for ignoring the Heritage Foundation’s campaign. Days later, his visa application was finally released by the court. Every critical section over the eighty-two pages was covered by black ink to protect him from ‘harm and harassment’.</p>
<p class="txt">That day, Harry opened the Invictus Games in Vancouver. ‘Invictus’ means unconquered.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>