<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 39</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct39" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct39"><span id="page_350"/>CHAPTER 39</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Vancouver</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Meghan needed a global stage for genuine admiration and cheering fans. To her good fortune, Harry agreed that she could also star at the Invictus Games. Just before flying up to Vancouver in a private jet financed by Invictus, she alerted her Instagram followers.</p>
<p class="txt">‘How should we address them?’ the Canadian organisers asked.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Meghan insists on “Ma’am” and Harry should be called “Sir”,’ replied Nick Booth, the chief executive of the Games. Booth had been parachuted into the post after the dismissal of two Canadian executives.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-812" id="en0-812" role="doc-noteref">812</a></sup> Both had resented the pushy Sussexes, not least their exorbitant expenses for security, accommodation and a private jet. Unlike Harry’s own financial contributions to Sentebale, his lifestyle expenses for Invictus were financed by government and corporate funding of the Games.</p>
<p class="txt">Booth, a leader of True Patriot Love Foundation in Canada, was classed as a sycophant by the ousted executives. As Harry’s doorkeeper, Booth used the Prince, alias an ‘attractive asset’, as a fundraiser to secure more money – the Games had been $30 million underfunded – to arrange TV coverage and tilt the media’s focus firmly towards the glamour of Harry and Meghan.</p>
<p class="txt">In the opinion of the ousted Canadian executives, Meghan was a <span id="page_351"/>distraction from the injured veterans. ‘She’s bling, not rehabilitation,’ protested one of the men. ‘Harry can’t decide whether Invictus should be styled on the Olympics or a more intimate warrior games embracing the military family.’ Caught halfway, they warned, the competition would once again be ignored by the media after the star-studded opening pop concert in Vancouver’s Convention Centre. ‘We need bigger ambitions to bring in the audience,’ said the Canadian executives.</p>
<p class="txt">Their criticism was echoed by Dominic Reid, the long-time head of the Invictus Foundation. Past coverage, admitted Reid, had been ‘disappointing’. He acknowledged that the media totally ignored the competitive aspect of the event. Reid blamed the Invictus leaders for allowing the Games to become the Harry and Meghan show. The media just followed their lead. And yet Nick Booth, with Harry’s encouragement, did not seem concerned. To get global attention, Booth was focused on the opening ceremony.</p>
<p class="txt">On 8th February 2025, Katy Perry performed for 30,000 ecstatic fans in the Convention Centre. Before her appearance, about five hundred competitors from twenty-three countries had paraded across the venue, preceded and followed by eighty Canadian navy bandsmen and ninety Highland pipers. Stirring military music endorsed the Canadian government’s promise to honour the Prince and the veterans.</p>
<p class="txt">Few of the cheering audience noticed that 97 per cent of the competitors were walking. Only a handful of the sportsmen were pushed in wheelchairs. Hardly any were limbless. The fans had come to see Katy Perry. For them, the Games was a music spectacular, not a bond between the nation and its armed forces.</p>
<p class="txt">Watching the parade from midway up the tier were Harry and Meghan. They had arrived at the stadium by car from their hotel’s penthouse suite across the street and were then transferred to an electric golf cart. Filmed by an Archewell cameraman, they were driven through an underground passage lined with hundreds of veterans and volunteers <span id="page_352"/>cheering ‘Harry, Harry!’ The video of the orchestrated welcome was posted on Meghan’s Instagram feed. Unexpectedly, more videos about the Sussexes in Vancouver were filtered on to her curated Instagram account. In one video, Meghan thanked the Indigenous Peoples for the hospitality on their sacred land and in another, the Sussexes met a group of children.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-813" id="en0-813" role="doc-noteref">813</a></sup> As usual, Meghan’s introduction of Harry focused on her giving their children breakfast.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-814" id="en0-814" role="doc-noteref">814</a></sup> Other videos revealed her outfits – Hermes, Ralph Lauren, Altuzarra, etc. Those were the curtain-raisers to the Sussexes’ sudden appearance opposite the media box in the stadium. The Meghan Games had been launched.</p>
<p class="txt">Sitting in full view of the audience, the Sussexes were conscious that every move was carefully scrutinised by the bank of manned long-distance camera lenses. As Harry attentively watched the parade, sitting upright and even leaning away from his wife, Meghan shifted to tilt her head on to his shoulder. Then she held his hand. Beyond her permanent smile her eyes betrayed a fear of staleness. She needed to inject drama for the cameras. She kissed her Prince. One kiss on his face and then, as Harry rose to make his speech, she also stood up and, with her hands cupped around his face, plonked a kiss on his lips. In what one observer called her ‘limpet cling’, she struck a besotted pose as ‘a gesture of ownership that speaks of enduring bonding’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-815" id="en0-815" role="doc-noteref">815</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The seventh Invictus Games was opening just as Canada, on the eve of a general election, had been plunged into a trade war with America. Canadians were outraged by President Trump’s bid to seize their country as the fifty-first state. After reading Trump’s denunciation of Meghan as ‘terrible’, Harry could no doubt resist retaliating. Hailing the competitors’ ‘courage, values and humanity’, he saluted the Invictus ‘spirit of unity’ in a ‘moment of difficulty and division when there is no shortage of crises, no absence of uncertainty, no lack of weak moral character in the world’. Canadians were doubly grateful for the support of a member of the Royal Family. The Prince loved the rapturous <span id="page_353"/>applause. Spontaneous and genuine, Harry assumed he had recovered the spotlight. The following day, the true nature of the Games was revealed. Most of Canada’s media ignored the event and Harry’s speech. The focus was on Meghan. She had stolen Harry’s moment.</p>
<p class="txt">At the opening basketball match between Nigeria and the United States at the Vancouver Convention Centre – a series of giant, vacant hangars – the mood was sullen. Merely forty-three ticket-buying spectators sat morosely together in a hall fitted with seats for over 2,000 people. On the other side of the court, about a hundred people brought in by the organisers were corralled to surround the Sussexes when they eventually arrived. The edited TV pictures would suggest that the hall was full. Among the guests was the Nigerian Air Vice-Marshal Abidemi Timothy Marquis. In return for arranging the Sussexes’ successful visit to Nigeria, Marquis expected to be warmly welcomed by the couple and for Harry to nominate his nation as the venue for the 2029 Games. Marquis was downhearted. Without explanation, Nigeria’s best basketball players and their coach had been denied entry visas by the Canadian government.</p>
<p class="txt">In an uncanny silence, the eight-man Nigerian scratch squad wheeled themselves on to the court. They faced twenty-two professionally trained Americans. While two men in the Nigerian team had lost a leg, none of the Americans were limbless. All were apparently suffering PTSD – post-traumatic stress disorder – but played in wheelchairs. Throughout the game, there was barely a murmur from the spectators. Halfway through the match, the Sussexes slipped into their seats.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry and Meghan’s presence at the game was the day’s media photo opportunity. Nine zoom lenses focused on the Sussexes’ tightly controlled narrative. The couple clapped silently. Meghan stared lovingly at Harry and the Prince watched the slow match intently. Nearby, a vetted TV station recorded them on a tight lens. Ten minutes after their arrival, the whistle blew. The Americans had trounced the Nigerians 24–0. There were no cheers. The American team wheeled themselves off the court <span id="page_354"/>into a secluded area beyond anyone’s view – and effortlessly they all got up. Unseen, all the Americans walked away. None of them appeared to be physically injured.</p>
<p class="txt">After the basketball players disappeared, the Sussexes posed for selfies with the American competitors’ families. Patiently waiting to greet the couple, Marquis finally saw his opportunity and approached Meghan. Her embrace was a brief brush pass before moving quickly away. Harry swung a handshake and rushed on to speak at length to an American government official. Nigeria’s ambition to host the 2029 Games was evidently forgotten. Harry had already decided that it would be staged in America. Deflated, Marquis left the hall. Ten minutes later, Meghan and Harry returned to their penthouse suite. Her staff were feeding Instagram with shots of Meghan walking hand in hand with Harry, hugging veterans’ wives and looking soulfully at a wheelchair-bound Nigerian competitor. Instantly, all her labelled clothes were linked to websites.</p>
<p class="txt">Across the street from the Sussexes’ hotel, the competitors in the empty hangars knew that the world was not interested in them. Subject to the Sussexes’ PR machine, the media chose not to reveal the truth – that Invictus’s 2,000 yellow-shirted volunteers around the deserted Convention Centre outnumbered paying spectators by about twenty to one. Just one middle-aged Italian veteran in a wheelchair reappeared constantly, pushing himself around the vast canteen. He had lost his leg in a truck accident in the Balkans. He was surrounded by 1,200 members of the competitors’ families, all enjoying free food twice daily. Invictus’s annual report would ignore the reality.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-816" id="en0-816" role="doc-noteref">816</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The following day, Invictus’s Winter Games opened in Whistler. In minus 17 degrees, about five hundred tourists were crammed into the ski resort’s square for the opening speeches. After the indigenous Canadians and state politicians had spoken, Harry and Meghan appeared. The royal celebrities thrilled the crowd. Both made brief, <span id="page_355"/>unscripted comments about their ‘excitement’ to be in the mountains and disappeared, just as two Canadian Air Force bombers thundered over the skiers.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Bring on Invictus Birmingham 2027!’ Harry shouted days later at the Games’ closing ceremony alongside Justin Trudeau. The outgoing Canadian prime minister had flown in from Ottawa specially. Harry could not hold back his tears as Trudeau concluded, ‘Service to your country is the noblest of all. Your strength and resilience is inspiring.’ Whether the British government would similarly honour the veterans in Birmingham was Harry’s challenge.</p>
<p class="txt">Few journalists had stayed in Vancouver to see Trudeau. Only hours after Meghan’s appearance in Whistler, the media had lost all interest in the Games. Meghan had unexpectedly flown back to Santa Barbara in a private jet. A new crisis had burst.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-817" id="en0-817" role="doc-noteref">817</a></sup></p>
</section>

</body>
</html>