<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 40</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct40" role="heading"><span id="page_356"/><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct40">CHAPTER 40</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Meghan, As Ever</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Eleven months after trailing American Riviera Orchard on Netflix by gifting jam to fifty friends, Meghan was told to abandon the label. A mere two weeks before the Netflix series started, even Meghan understood the damage. She had ignored the warning about the failed application for registering the patent. On her lawyers’ advice, American Riviera Orchard was renamed as ‘As Ever’. Meghan described her experience as ‘a learning curve’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-818" id="en0-818" role="doc-noteref">818</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The application for the ‘As Ever’ trademark had been made in October 2022 but was rejected because a Chinese clothes company had registered the same name. The revised application was approved in 2024. With typical indecisiveness, Meghan had left it to the last moment before dashing from Whistler back to Montecito, but she needed to explain the change to her brand name. Without a budget and without a director, she recruited a member of her staff to shoot a video in her garden to be posted on Instagram and X to tell the world.</p>
<p class="txt">Looking thin and exhausted in a jerky, badly lit video, Meghan spoke breathlessly to camera: ‘Last year, I thought, “You know what, American Riviera, that sounds like such a great name. It’s my neighbourhood, it’s a nickname for Santa Barbara.” But it limited me <span id="page_357"/>to things that were just manufactured and grown in this area.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-819" id="en0-819" role="doc-noteref">819</a></sup> Nervy laughter punctuated the actress’s explanation for dismissing American Riviera Orchard as a ‘word salad’ defying ‘artistic’ nuance. In contrast, she intoned, ‘As Ever’ was her inspiration, one unmotivated by any urgency.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-820" id="en0-820" role="doc-noteref">820</a></sup> To win public sympathy, her voice was laid over pictures of herself walking with Lilibet, shot from behind.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-821" id="en0-821" role="doc-noteref">821</a></sup> Once again, Lilibet featured rather than Archie.</p>
<p class="txt">Unable to complete the video in one shoot, the result was a sharply edited selection of takes.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-822" id="en0-822" role="doc-noteref">822</a></sup> Later she called a friend for reassurance.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-823" id="en0-823" role="doc-noteref">823</a></sup> Was she sinking or swimming, many asked? The answer was struggling. Four months later, her post had been viewed 26 million times.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-824" id="en0-824" role="doc-noteref">824</a></sup> Not for the majority out of admiration but to witness an extraordinary spectacle.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I couldn’t share with you in the past few years [my] passion for food and home,’ she asserted, referring to her former life in the Royal Family. Her series, <em>With Love, Meghan</em>, she said, was her ‘new chapter’ and ‘part of that creativity that I’ve missed so much’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-825" id="en0-825" role="doc-noteref">825</a></sup> As usual she offered a dose of borrowed philosophy, on this occasion from the Japanese concept of <em>kintsugi</em>: ‘If you break something that is precious and valuable, it’s not broken. That fracture makes it more beautiful. The break makes it more beautiful.’ If any relationship was troubled, she continued, ‘You’re not broken. It can be fixed, it can be sealed and healed at the same time.’ Her words were challenging.</p>
<p class="txt">As Ever’s motif was two palm trees with two hummingbirds. When describing the design, Meghan cited two palm trees in her Montecito garden and how, soon after they bought the house, a hummingbird had flown into a room. Her genius was to merge the two as symbols of ‘resilience and joy’. The Spanish town of Porreres was unconvinced. Her logo was identical to the town’s coat of arms adopted in 1370. Since her Tig lifestyle blog days, Meghan had been famous for surfing the internet for ideas.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_358"/>Soon after, on 17th February, Meghan posted a mood board artfully designed with photos and quotations of home-concocted wisdom. ‘I love you with all my butt . . . I would say heart but my butt is bigger.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-826" id="en0-826" role="doc-noteref">826</a></sup> Some mocked her, but there was a fascination about her destiny.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-827" id="en0-827" role="doc-noteref">827</a></sup> Every potential pitfall and any sniff of failure excited interest. Her trajectory was uncertain. Up or down? Few could imagine how Meghan would realise her ambition to be a billionaire. If she failed, her uncharitable downfall would be the stuff of a Hollywood drama series.</p>
<p class="txt">She knew that her promise to sell the merchandise featured in her show was careless. None of the products were available in any quantity. Even the jam’s existence was shrouded in mystery.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-828" id="en0-828" role="doc-noteref">828</a></sup> The Instagram video of As Ever raspberry jam jars at the end of a busy production line looked real, but the brief clip showed fewer than thirty jars. ‘As Ever is more than a brand – it’s a love language,’ promised the website. To promote her jam, Meghan posted on Instagram an image of Lilibet’s hand nearing a bubbling pot in her own kitchen that supposedly contained her homemade spread. ‘Beautiful,’ says her daughter, although As Ever jam was apparently manufactured 2,000 miles away in Illinois.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-829" id="en0-829" role="doc-noteref">829</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan pleaded with Netflix executives to bail her out. Josh Simon, Netflix’s vice president of consumer products, agreed to help but failed to make a statement himself.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-830" id="en0-830" role="doc-noteref">830</a></sup> Speaking on Netflix’s behalf, Meghan explained that Simon ‘came on, not only to be a partner in my show but also in my business. And not just jams. There are so many products I want to share with you.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-831" id="en0-831" role="doc-noteref">831</a></sup> The details of their agreement were ambiguous. ‘I can’t speak to the specifics of the terms of the deal,’ Meghan said. ‘We are very, very much in harmony on how we see the growth of this, and the trajectory over the next five to seven years.’ How the project would end – either in a buy-out or a public flotation – she was unsure. She limited herself to further ambiguity: ‘I felt that the partnership was the right move for the global expansion we want.’</p>
<p class="txt">To silence the doubters, Meghan added that Netflix was not just a <span id="page_359"/>financial backer but would also manufacture and package her products. ‘We are on calls daily, working through product development, SKUs and inventory. We have a field trip tomorrow to look at different manufacturers and suppliers as we expand the brand.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-832" id="en0-832" role="doc-noteref">832</a></sup> In Meghan’s version, Netflix appeared to be committed to mass marketing all As Ever products.</p>
<p class="txt">The cracks appeared soon after. Meghan’s claim that her products would be sold through Netflix’s stores in Texas and Philadelphia was denied by Netflix.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-833" id="en0-833" role="doc-noteref">833</a></sup> Netflix also refused to confirm the corporation would be manufacturing As Ever’s products.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-834" id="en0-834" role="doc-noteref">834</a></sup> Distribution had been contracted out to Snow Commerce in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Latvian company had attracted criticism for past failures around order fulfilment and poor customer service.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-835" id="en0-835" role="doc-noteref">835</a></sup> Anonymous Netflix employees cursed their association with Meghan.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-836" id="en0-836" role="doc-noteref">836</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan sought to rebut criticism of being ‘tone-deaf’, ‘play-acting’ and lacking a clear, core message. She put her faith in her latest recruit, Meredith Maines, a publicist previously employed by Google and <em>American Idol</em>. Like Meghan, Maines was also attached to rescue dogs.</p>
<p class="txt">‘The constant scrutiny of Meghan,’ Maines announced, was ‘motivated by clickbait and systems that make sport out of attacking women’. Too many damaging narratives, she felt, had been left ‘unchecked’, not least by Buckingham Palace’s failure to close down ‘false stories before they spiralled into character assassination’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-837" id="en0-837" role="doc-noteref">837</a></sup> She would seek out media allies willing to understand Meghan’s ‘authenticity’ as a business founder and ‘mom’. Maines’s hunt for allies to recreate Meghan’s brand led to the usual sympathisers.</p>
<p class="txt">Maines started with Cory Shields, a former Amazon publicity executive writing for <em>US Weekly</em> magazine. Shields blessed Meghan with ‘a clear vision who understands how to build a brand. She operates with the same level of strategy, discipline and market awareness that defines the most successful entrepreneurs in any industry.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-838" id="en0-838" role="doc-noteref">838</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_360"/>For <em>Fortune</em> magazine, Meghan posed as a global entrepreneur, anticipating a mega-sale or stock market flotation of As Ever within seven years.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-839" id="en0-839" role="doc-noteref">839</a></sup> ‘From our standpoint, certainly for me, even in the expansion of the brand, things should still feel accessible,’ Meghan told <em>Fortune</em>, adding with gravitas that, ‘At the moment all of our products are currently made in the US, so we don’t anticipate tariffs affecting us directly.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-840" id="en0-840" role="doc-noteref">840</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘The success of brands like these,’ commented the magazine favourably, ‘has usually started with a multimedia approach, and that’s very much the path Meghan has taken here.’</p>
<p class="txt">To add more firepower for the Sussexes, Maines recruited Shahed Fakhari Larson of UNLMTD Partners, an expert in crisis management and communication.</p>
<p class="txt">On 4th March, the day before the <em>With Love</em> series streamed, Meredith Maines arranged for <em>People</em> magazine to publish a positive profile. Billed as Meghan’s ‘most intimate interview in years’, the champion of female empowerment spoke as ‘Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-841" id="en0-841" role="doc-noteref">841</a></sup> Her unique selling point showcased the talent of ‘a woman, a mom and a wife’. Cooking, crafting and gardening with friends, she told <em>People</em>, was a natural extension of her pre-royal life: ‘I see myself as an entrepreneur and female founder.’ Even at the moment of seeking acclaim as an icon of the American Dream, Meghan was confused about her identity. Was she the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, Meghan Sussex or, as she later signed in a message to a Ukrainian politician, Her Royal Highness.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-842" id="en0-842" role="doc-noteref">842</a></sup> Could she simultaneously be a member of the Royal Family and a swinging, anti-royalist Californian girl?</p>
<p class="txt">Posing for <em>People</em> magazine as a champion of ‘home cooking’, she seemed unaware that her ‘super easy-going’ celebrity lifestyle – couture clothes, private jets, expensive restaurants, children’s carers and other staff – in an idyllic house worth by then over $25 million was an unusual sales pitch for a working mom’s daily routine. Sprinkling foraged petals <span id="page_361"/>on her children’s breakfast cereals before school drop-offs and playdates, and frequently enjoying lunches with local friends in restaurants before ending the day hosting parties, was summarised in the ‘working moms’ core message: ‘I love the heritage feeling of it.’</p>
<p class="txt">Concerned about how she was perceived, she described her friendship with the local ‘working women with normal jobs’ and ‘stay-at-home moms’ she had met at children’s birthday parties and the local fitness class – ‘I just walk in and say, like, “Hi.”’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-843" id="en0-843" role="doc-noteref">843</a></sup> But there were irritations. She complained that women had stared at her when she entered a Montecito yoga class.</p>
<p class="txt">Some asked whether Meghan was serious or joking, but self-mockery to win endearment was beyond her. Her super-controlled narrative crushed any natural warmth. Fearful of critics, she threw up barriers for self-protection. An impediment was her word salad. To deflect any suggestion that her ideas were shallow, everything she said was spoken with deep affirmation. ‘I’ve always loved taking something pretty ordinary and elevating it,’ she told <em>People</em> in a room filled with flowers. ‘I think about flowers like an outfit,’ she continued solemnly. ‘What story are you going to tell?’ she asked rhetorically, without an obvious answer.</p>
<p class="txt">Within hours of streaming, the series’ highlights showed Meghan dropping flower sprinkles on food, cutting raw vegetables and transferring common pretzels out of their supermarket wrapping into her own gift bags adorned with calligraphed labels.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-844" id="en0-844" role="doc-noteref">844</a></sup> Among her few unoriginal tips was to offer guests ice cubes containing frozen flowers. That sparked the question: who were Meghan’s ‘Tips for Enjoyment’ aimed at? Did her audience need to be told that fresh mint tea was best made using fresh mint? Or be told twice that the teabag should be ‘steeped in hot water and shared with loved ones at midday or by a fire’? The profound insight into Harry’s ‘joyful’ life with Meghan was her list of fillers for Archie’s party bags: seeds, sugar snap peas and sweet basil.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-845" id="en0-845" role="doc-noteref">845</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_362"/>Among the unintended highlights in her Netflix series was the moment she told actress Mindy Kaling that she used to eat Taco Bell and pizza with hot sauce. ‘I don’t think anyone in the world knows that Meghan Markle has eaten Jack in the Box and loves it,’ Kaling helpfully replied. Rather than laugh, Meghan corrected her ‘guest’: ‘It’s so funny too that you keep saying “Meghan Markle”. You know I’m “Sussex” now?’ Then followed a mouthful about the ‘meaningful’ importance of changing her surname because ‘it’s part of our love story’. Her family with Harry, she said, had never shared a surname. In reality, their shared surname was Mountbatten-Windsor. And reporting from Nigeria and Colombia, <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em> and <em>Time</em> magazine had called her Meghan Markle, the same name she had used at the Project Healthy Minds conference in New York.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-846" id="en0-846" role="doc-noteref">846</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Who Is the “Real” Meghan?’ asked <em>Rolling Stone</em> in its review of the series. ‘It’s so difficult to work out who she really is.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-847" id="en0-847" role="doc-noteref">847</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Meghan Markle’s As Ever is selling an identity crisis,’ <em>Newsweek</em> columnist Margaret Hartmann concluded. She’s a ‘fairytale princess’ who is either a British duchess or a Californian mom.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-848" id="en0-848" role="doc-noteref">848</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The writer Nadira Goffe, previously an admirer of Meghan as a victim of the racist Brits, was now dismissive of Meghan flaunting her wealth. Goffe no longer wanted to be identified as a Meghan supporter.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-849" id="en0-849" role="doc-noteref">849</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Pointless’ was the <em>Guardian</em>’s judgement about the series, and that was among the least nasty comments. Scoring 11 per cent on review site Rotten Tomatoes, it was referred to in the comments as ‘a gormless lifestyle filler’, ‘a waste of time’, ‘so boring I wanted to go into a coma’, and ‘superficial and shallow’. Meghan was criticised for focusing on appearance rather than taste.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-850" id="en0-850" role="doc-noteref">850</a></sup> As for the flower sprinkles, ‘the dusting can’t hide the blandness of the cookie’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-851" id="en0-851" role="doc-noteref">851</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In tens of thousands of posts on YouTube, critics noticed that she held her $240 knives incorrectly, her long hair would fall into the food and her couture clothes were inappropriate for cooking: ‘I just love the <span id="page_363"/>authenticity of a bunch of rich women, in super-expensive jewellery and full glam, supporting their diamond and Cartier-wearing friend in designer clothes, making frittata and sponge cake in a house that’s not even hers.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-852" id="en0-852" role="doc-noteref">852</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Worse, Meghan was accused of being fake. Her recipes could be traced back to celebrity cooks and other TV shows. Viewers spotted recipes that had been previously published on food blogs, particularly on Pamela Anderson’s blog.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-853" id="en0-853" role="doc-noteref">853</a></sup> Some blamed ‘misogynoir’ [hatred of black women] or racism for the criticism. But that was trounced by the opinion of Carla Hall, a well-known black chef. Previously a friend of the couple, on the day Archie was born, 6th May 2019, Hall had ignited a scandal when she asked Harry and Meghan whether they would raise their child as black? Her question provoked a torrent of criticism, accusing Hall of racism.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-854" id="en0-854" role="doc-noteref">854</a></sup> Six years later, Hall’s sympathy for Meghan had disappeared. As the author of <em>Cooking with Love</em>, Hall accused Meghan’s series <em>With Love, Meghan</em> of plagiarism. There were ‘questions about her integrity’, Hall wrote, because Meghan had ‘leveraged others’ achievements into personal gain’. Not least, alleged Hall, Meghan had used ideas from her own book <em>Soul Food,</em> published in 2018. Hall had encouraged readers to ‘cook with love, live with joy’ – an uncanny resemblance to Meghan’s own pitch.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-855" id="en0-855" role="doc-noteref">855</a></sup> Hall was equally irritated about finding echoes of her ‘Sweet Heritage’ brand, offering recipes to feed ‘self-discovery – exploring who you are, manifesting your best life’, in Meghan’s Netflix series.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-856" id="en0-856" role="doc-noteref">856</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The lifestyle pitched by Meghan seemed designed to generate envy. Meghan’s venture, a <em>New York Post</em> columnist wrote, was ‘costly vanity’. Meghan McCain, the daughter of the late Republican politician John McCain, picked on Meghan for being ‘utterly tone-deaf’ during a cost of living crisis. ‘Do something to help people instead of your ego,’ McCain advised Meghan. ‘This is why the world doesn’t like you.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-857" id="en0-857" role="doc-noteref">857</a></sup> Wisely, Meghan had disabled the comments on her new Instagram page.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_364"/>To counter the bad reviews, it seems probable Meghan’s PR team bombarded the web with praise. ‘You’ve made my day,’ wrote one ‘admirer’. ‘Such great news,’ wrote another.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-858" id="en0-858" role="doc-noteref">858</a></sup> The puffery failed to sink the criticism. ‘<em>With Love, Meghan</em> is a Montecito Ego Trip Not Worth Taking’ was <em>Variety</em>’s headline. The series, the magazine continued, ‘is made with a great deal of love, in the sense that the greatest love of all is the one that a person has for herself.’ <em>New York</em> Magazine was more damning: ‘<em>With Love, Meghan</em> is an utterly deranged bizarre world voyage into the centre of nothing, a fantastical monument to the captivating power of watching one woman decorate a cake with her make-up artist while communicating solely through throw-pillow adages about joy and hospitality.’ <em>Time</em> magazine concluded about the Sussexes, ‘The more they say about themselves, the less real they seem.’ Recalling Meghan’s distress in 2019 about the ‘almost unsurvivable’ negative media after her ‘<em>faux pas</em> with avocados’, <em>Newsweek</em> commented that the episode was trivial compared to the tsunami of ridicule dumped in 2025 on Montecito.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-859" id="en0-859" role="doc-noteref">859</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Even the New York columnist Robert Couri Hay turned against the Sussexes: ‘They took a dramatic turn to the dark side. There’s a money grab. She seems more transactional now. In the long term, she couldn’t handle it. They’ve failed in America.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-860" id="en0-860" role="doc-noteref">860</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">With her ‘As Ever’ products launching alongside the series on 2nd April, there had been intense scrutiny of the eight products on sale: wildflower honey with honeycomb priced at $28 (£21.60), flower sprinkles at $15 (£11.60), a jar of raspberry jam at $14 (£10.80), shortbread and crepe mixes at $14 and herbal tea mixes for $12 (£9.30 each). A spokeswoman for As Ever said that ‘tens of thousands’ of items were available for sale.</p>
<p class="txt">Within the first forty-five minutes, all the products had been sold out. Meghan swooned that it confirmed ‘that customers – people – believed in me’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-861" id="en0-861" role="doc-noteref">861</a></sup> She praised the extraordinary spectacle of the launch as ‘a big milestone’. On Instagram, she wrote: ‘Our shelves may be empty, but my heart is full! We sold out in less than one hour and <span id="page_365"/>I can’t thank you enough . . . for celebrating, purchasing, sharing, and believing.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-862" id="en0-862" role="doc-noteref">862</a></sup> In another post she was jubilant: ‘It’s just the start @aseverofficial &#127881; Here we go!’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-863" id="en0-863" role="doc-noteref">863</a></sup> Others called it an unprecedentedly botched launch. Sympathisers would say that Meghan’s ‘business model’ was thoughtful. Others would say Meghan was out of her depth and that she had fallen flat.</p>
<p class="txt">Meredith Maines hit back. She encouraged media outlets to speculate why Meghan’s series had sparked such polarising extremes of anger and sympathy.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-864" id="en0-864" role="doc-noteref">864</a></sup> Maines aired the familiar theory that Meghan was the victim of racism. To scotch the critics, Maines arranged an interview with the <em>New York Times</em>. Setting the scene of Meghan as a self-styled ‘entrepreneur and founder’, journalist Julia Moskin was allowed into her Montecito house to rebut one serious criticism: Meghan was no longer a feminist but just an ‘unrelatable’ old-fashioned woman ‘riding the tradwife wave’ who told <em>People</em> magazine that being ‘a mom and a wife . . . is a wonderful feeling’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-865" id="en0-865" role="doc-noteref">865</a></sup> To provide support, her mother Doria Ragland was present. Under Maines’s gaze, Meghan’s narrative to the <em>New York Times</em> promoted several inaccuracies, including that her mother was her sole responsible parent during her childhood. Also omitted was how Meghan had been plagued by doubts and fears and suffering sleepless nights before the launch of the series.</p>
<p class="txt">Maines had not interrupted when the <em>Times</em> reporter assumed that Meghan intended to produce and sell more jam. By then, because the reviews for her raspberry jam were especially unforgiving,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-866" id="en0-866" role="doc-noteref">866</a></sup> Meghan had decided to ‘pause’ production.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-867" id="en0-867" role="doc-noteref">867</a></sup> In truth she considered abandoning jam altogether, but then changed her mind. Thankfully, Netflix did not report that the audience over the first days was insignificant. In America, <em>With Love, Meghan</em> (<em>WLM</em>) barely registered in the top 100. Worldwide, Meghan’s series ranked 383rd with 5.3 million viewers. In contrast, the drama <em>Adolescence</em> had 145 million viewers. Only in Britain and Hungary did <em>WLM</em> reach the top ten – for one day before disappearing from the <span id="page_366"/>lists. In comparison, the original Netflix <em>Harry &amp; Meghan</em> series was viewed in 29 million households in its first four days, hitting the number one slot. Although a second series of <em>WLM</em> had already been filmed for streaming later in the year, insiders at Netflix assumed that the Sussexes were on ‘borrowed time’ until their five-year agreement ended.</p>
<p class="txt">Pushing on, Maines arranged another interview with <em>Fortune</em> magazine. The business bible could have been expected to probe Meghan’s operation: to identify the products’ manufacturer, the distributor and, most important, As Ever’s finances. Instead, it offered a platform for Meghan to applaud her own success: ‘I wanted to create products that look more prestige but are more accessible and affordable. I think during any time of recession, people still want to find creature comforts, items that can bring them joy.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-868" id="en0-868" role="doc-noteref">868</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">By then, the fact Meghan’s products had sold out merely exposed Meghan’s failure to find a financial backer. Launching a brand, and manufacturing and distributing sufficient products, would cost at least $7 million. No one had been identified as employed by Meghan to find the bank or venture capitalist to mastermind the launch. Unwilling to risk her own money to test the water, Meghan had produced a cottage business and hoped that publicity would propel her ambition. To big herself up, she even mentioned building As Ever hotels and restaurants.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-869" id="en0-869" role="doc-noteref">869</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><em>Fortune</em> magazine did not probe either her lack of expertise or cash. Instead, her questionable gushes were quoted verbatim: ‘Just having a global powerhouse that believed in me,’ she said about Netflix, ‘and the site selling out in the first 45 minutes of the launch, everything, every single piece that we had been working on, that told me that customers, people believed in me in this vision. That’s all you really want as a founder. That becomes your proof point that those late nights and the midnight musings are worth it.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-870" id="en0-870" role="doc-noteref">870</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To prove that she was a born businesswoman, she described how as an eleven-year-old she made and sold cookies, and ‘I’d buy the remnants <span id="page_367"/>of fabric from the fabric store and elastics, and use my little home sewing machine to make scrunchies and sell them.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-871" id="en0-871" role="doc-noteref">871</a></sup> Interestingly, Thomas Markle, with whom she was living at the time, denied that happened.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-872" id="en0-872" role="doc-noteref">872</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><em>Fortune</em> did not describe the reality that As Ever was simply a branding operation. Meghan had paid to have the As Ever label stuck on to products made by The Republic of Tea, who were also manufacturers of Netflix’s <em>Bridgerton</em> merchandise associated with the streamer’s hit show. Repackaging pretzels on screen during her series was the model for her business.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-873" id="en0-873" role="doc-noteref">873</a></sup> She never denied that all her products were merely re-labels of other corporations’ products.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-874" id="en0-874" role="doc-noteref">874</a></sup> But more importantly, she had never disclosed that her products were not original. American Riviera Orchard and As Ever were just smokescreens.</p>
<p class="txt">Maines would not allow other journalists access to Meghan to ask the ‘founder’ challenging questions. Instead, Meghan delivered a homily: ‘I think it speaks to this chapter many of us find ourselves in, where none of us are one note. But I believe all the notes I am playing are part of the same song.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-875" id="en0-875" role="doc-noteref">875</a></sup> Some would call it a battle song for Meghan’s survival. And also for Harry’s.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>