<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 41</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct41" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct41"><span id="page_368"/>CHAPTER 41</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Contrasting Lives</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">Meghan was nowhere to be seen as Harry fought his latest battle.</p>
<p class="txt">In mid-February 2025, soon after his return from Vancouver, Harry asked Tim Boucher, a Sentebale trustee<strong>,</strong> to call Sophie Chandauka.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Will you resign immediately?’ asked Boucher.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Why should I resign?’ she replied. ‘I’m still a whistle-blower.’</p>
<p class="txt">‘If you go,’ said Boucher, ‘Harry will fund the organisation.’</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka asked the fifteen executives and fifty-strong team in Lesotho whether she should resign. Many urged her to resist. Having witnessed Harry’s aggressive behaviour towards Chandauka during the last Zoom board meeting, and recalling his absence from Lesotho for five years, they did not want to be dependent on him.</p>
<p class="txt">On 16th February, Mark Dyer submitted a motion to the board to remove Chandauka from Sentebale on the grounds that she failed to get along with anyone, including Harry. Dyer had ignored the procedures required by the governance rules. Chandauka’s lawyer stopped the meeting. In a fury, Dyer called the lawyer.</p>
<p class="txt">‘If she stays, we won’t speak to her,’ he announced.</p>
<p class="txt">‘It’s a hostile takeover,’ Harry declared.</p>
<p class="txt">At Harry’s request, Sentebale’s trustees secretly approved Chandauka’s <span id="page_369"/>dismissal. Pertinently, Sentebale’s lawyers advised Harry that he was acting without authority. It later appeared that Harry’s name was repeatedly mentioned on the lawyer Bates Wells’ invoices.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I’m fighting in the dark,’ Chandauka told her supporters. To stop her ‘ejection’, Chandauka applied to London’s High Court to pause any board meetings for six weeks. Unopposed, on 5th March she succeeded. Temporarily, the trustees were unable to remove her. Five days later, to avoid the legal costs to fight Chandauka in court, Harry adopted radical tactics.</p>
<p class="txt">On 10th March, the trustees signed a ‘private and confidential’ letter addressed to Chandauka outlining the reasons for her dismissal. ‘It’s a horrible letter,’ Chandauka told friends. ‘It’s all about discrediting and destroying me. It’s hugely defamatory.’ To provoke a revolt against Chandauka, the ‘private and confidential’ letter was emailed to all of Sentebale’s staff.</p>
<p class="txt">Until then, to protect the charity, the court proceedings initiated by Chandauka had been kept private. Harry and Mark Dyer must have decided their best ploy to force Chandauka’s resignation was a public assault. Over the following two weeks, they agreed that the remaining trustees should resign on 25th March, accompanied by a statement criticising Chandauka.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-876" id="en0-876" role="doc-noteref">876</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">On the eve of the resignations, Harry handed a statement to <em>The Times</em>. The impression Harry created for his global audience was of a cherished charity being destroyed by one woman’s gross mismanagement. Hours after his public onslaught damaged Chandauka’s reputation, Harry and Prince Seeiso, the charity’s co-founder in Botswana, announced their own resignations. Both said they were ‘truly heartbroken’. And they continued: ‘It is devastating that the relationship between the charity’s trustees and the chair of the board broke down beyond repair, creating an untenable situation.’</p>
<p class="txt">Doubting that Harry sincerely wanted to save Sentebale, Chandauka <span id="page_370"/>had already chosen their replacements – two African trustees: Nerissa Naidu, a South African businesswoman, and Dr Margaret Ikpoh, a practising GP in Britain, and the English former banker Iain Rawlinson.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-877" id="en0-877" role="doc-noteref">877</a></sup> Two hours after Harry’s resignation, she adopted the very tactics used by Meghan and Harry to attack the Royal Family – full-blast media. In a series of interviews, she denounced Harry for wanting ‘to force a failure and then come to the rescue’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-878" id="en0-878" role="doc-noteref">878</a></sup> She accused Harry and Dyer of ‘playing the victim card and using the very press they disdain to harm people who have the courage to challenge their conduct’. Chandauka described herself as the scapegoat for ‘daring to blow the whistle’ on ‘weak governance, weak executive management, abuse of power, bullying, harassment, misogynoir – and the cover-up that ensued’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-879" id="en0-879" role="doc-noteref">879</a></sup> Bluntly, Harry was accused of the evil which Meghan levelled at the Royal Family – white elitism. Speaking ‘first and foremost as a proud African’, Chandauka asserted, ‘I will not be intimidated. I must stand for something. I stand for those other women who do not have the ways and means.’</p>
<p class="txt">Harry and Dyer had not anticipated Chandauka’s retaliation. While Dyer briefed the media about the ‘horrors’ caused by Chandauka’s mismanagement, Harry fired back through Alex Rayner, an old Etonian friend: ‘He is just beyond heartbroken and flabbergasted that the charity he founded as a teenager has been taken hostage by the chair. It feels tantamount to a hostile takeover. He feels as if he has had one of his fingers cut off.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-880" id="en0-880" role="doc-noteref">880</a></sup> But Chandauka would not be cowed.</p>
<p class="txt">Dramatically, she appeared in Sky TV’s studio to be interviewed by Trevor Phillips. Astutely, she brought Iain Rawlinson to sit next to her. ‘The number one risk for this organisation,’ said Chandauka, ‘was the toxicity of its lead patron’s brand.’ In a broadcast streamed across the world, Harry was accused of covering up an investigation into ‘harassment, bullying and misogyny at scale’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-881" id="en0-881" role="doc-noteref">881</a></sup> Harry’s alleged bad behaviour attracted thousands of comments.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-882" id="en0-882" role="doc-noteref">882</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">‘Blatant lies,’ retorted Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-883" id="en0-883" role="doc-noteref">883</a></sup> Too late. His tag – ‘life of service’ – <span id="page_371"/>flopped. Hostilities abruptly stopped after the Charity Commission agreed to Chandauka’s request for an investigation.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-884" id="en0-884" role="doc-noteref">884</a></sup> Harry was paralysed. Simultaneously, African Parks’ denial of abuses towards tribesmen had been exposed as untrue. Omnia Strategy, the London law firm, reported that ‘human rights abuses have occurred’ against the Baka people. African Parks’ rangers were culpable. Survival International called on Harry to resign.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-885" id="en0-885" role="doc-noteref">885</a></sup> He refused.</p>
<p class="txt">Days later, Harry’s appearance at an Upfront Summit in Los Angeles, a prestigious conference for influential billionaire venture capitalists and tech giants, looked embarrassing.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-886" id="en0-886" role="doc-noteref">886</a></sup> At the end of a rambling address recycling his emotional laundry – mental health, social media and the Royal Family – the audience was silent. Few clapped. He was dubbed ‘the relic of a media cycle’. His ‘rehashed’ brand was dying. The Prince had become a ‘background noise’, a non-essential nonentity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-887" id="en0-887" role="doc-noteref">887</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Life for Harry was appearing more and more directionless. His days were spent exercising, occasionally collecting his children from school and smoking cannabis. His only purposeful activity was planning the next Invictus Games and plotting his battles in London’s High Courts.</p>
<p class="txt">On 4th April 2025, <em>The Times</em> portrayed the Royal Family’s contrasting lives. At the top of page 15, the newspaper reported that Rio de Janeiro would be William’s next venue for The Earthshot Prize. The organisation’s new CEO was Jason Knauf, the Sussexes’ former communications chief. At the foot of the page was the report of Harry’s ‘heartbreak’ about Sentebale. The Charity Commission intended to investigate whether Chandauka’s payment of £400,000 ($500,000) to consultants was a conflict of interest, one of many damaging rumours spread by the former trustees.</p>
<p class="txt">In the middle of the page was a stunning photograph of Meghan illustrating her tip that As Ever’s £11 jam should be spread over a crepe ‘for a romantic breakfast in bed’. The former champion of privacy was seeking publicity for her Lemonada podcasts.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_372"/>To engineer another make-or-break moment, Meghan’s publicists manufactured another news clash. On the very day that Charles and Camilla started a state tour of Italy – only hours after Charles had received his latest cancer treatment in a London hospital – Meghan’s <em>Confessions of a Female Founder</em> podcast series for Lemonada was launched. In a strange move, her publicists revealed she had suffered an obscure illness during pregnancy. Her announcement was accompanied by childhood photographs taken by her father.</p>
<p class="txt">Her podcast’s introduction was succinct: ‘I’m Meghan and this is <em>Confessions of a Female Founder</em>, a show where I chat with female entrepreneurs and friends about the sleepless nights, the lessons learned, and the laser focus that got them to where they are today.’</p>
<p class="txt">From the outset, the series followed a familiar pattern of embellishing her past – self-pity, self-love and her self-judgement. Citing many foreign trips with her mother to taste food, she said: ‘We would just try so many different flavours in different places.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-888" id="en0-888" role="doc-noteref">888</a></sup> Previously, she had only mentioned a single trip with Doria to Jamaica.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan also described a blissful childhood with Doria. But her mother was actually absent for over ten years of her childhood, during which time Meghan had lived with her father. On the podcasts, she described herself as a latch-key kid eating TV dinners. But previously she had prided herself as a child choosing ‘healthy farm food’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-889" id="en0-889" role="doc-noteref">889</a></sup> She also mentioned living for ‘several months’ in Argentina while ‘interning at the US Embassy’. In reality, she had spent five weeks at a school attached to the embassy and then failed the entrance examination. The following year, she returned to holiday in Argentina with a local boyfriend and, finding herself broke, was bailed out by her father.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-890" id="en0-890" role="doc-noteref">890</a></sup> The rewriting of Meghan’s biography was matched by the Sussexes’ endless hunt for headlines.</p>
<p class="txt">On the same day that Buckingham Palace expected photographs of Charles and Camilla’s state visit to Rome to feature on the front pages, <span id="page_373"/>Harry unexpectedly arrived in London.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-891" id="en0-891" role="doc-noteref">891</a></sup> The Palace’s planned media campaign was wiped out by Harry’s entrance at the High Court. He was appealing against the Home Office’s refusal to provide automatic protection in Britain. ‘This one always mattered the most,’ he said.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-892" id="en0-892" role="doc-noteref">892</a></sup> He had spent the previous night at a hotel in Windsor while his father was at Highgrove. They had barely spoken since his dash to London after the King’s cancer diagnosis in February 2024.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s presence in the court was perfectly judged to win maximum publicity. Journalists poured into the room to watch the Prince. His argument – that he was ‘singled out for different, unjustified and inferior treatment’ – was, as his lawyers ought to have known, certain to fail. The Home Office’s promise to provide him with ‘bespoke protection’ was advantageous. Just because Harry disliked the uncertainty did not make Ravec’s decision unlawful.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-893" id="en0-893" role="doc-noteref">893</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry had shifted his argument. The reason the Sussexes had left Britain, his lawyer Shaheed Fatima told the judge, was because ‘they considered they were not being protected by the institution’. Originally, Harry claimed his privacy was unprotected from the media. Now he said he had been unprotected and left undefended from assassins.</p>
<p class="txt">After leaving the courtroom at the end of the second day, Harry suspected he had lost. Keen to get his version out first, Harry wanted to give a media interview. Instead of cautioning the Prince that he could only lose by attacking the courts and his family, Meredith Maines summoned the <em>Daily Telegraph</em>’s Victoria Ward. Maines did not anticipate Britain’s reaction to Harry’s anger.</p>
<p class="txt">‘People would be shocked by what’s being held back,’ Harry told Ward about the security evidence submitted during the closed session of the trial. ‘My worst fears have been confirmed.’ The Palace’s lies, he said, were ‘difficult to swallow’. He was the victim, he said, of blackmail by the Palace. His protection, he said, had been withdrawn while they were in Canada to prevent ‘Megxit’ and force them back to <span id="page_374"/>Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-894" id="en0-894" role="doc-noteref">894</a></sup> Harry knew that his allegation was inaccurate. The Canadian government had publicly announced its refusal to pay for armed protection once he had decided to live permanently in California as a non-working royal. Canadian taxpayers, said the Ottawa government, would not bear the expense.</p>
<p class="txt">The second part of his message was an attack on his father. If only the King had intervened, said Harry, he could have secured armed protection for him – and reconciliation would have followed. He wanted peace, Harry said.</p>
<p class="txt">The interview rebounded. To say that his move to California was driven by the denial of armed protection in Britain was fanciful. Harry’s version fuelled the lack of trust within the Palace. Camilla, Kate and William urged the King not to consider any peace initiative from his younger son. Without William’s explicit agreement, Charles considered it unwise to speak to Harry. To survive, the House of Windsor could tolerate no division. Cultivating a compromise was impossible, especially in light of the King’s continuing cancer treatment and his sensitivity about his heir’s intention to change the monarchy after his succession. Uncertain about how long he would live, Charles allowed William to thwart Harry. The rift deepened.</p>
<p class="txt">That evening in London, Harry was evidently lonely. The previous day he had refused an invitation to the wedding at Chelsea Old Town Hall of his friend Lord Charles Vivian, one of the so-called ‘band of brothers’ photographed on the night of Harry’s wedding in 2018. Harry’s excuse was the lack of armed protection. Though, despite his sense of vulnerability, after the <em>Telegraph’</em>s interview, Harry headed to Fulham to find old friends John and Georgina Vaughan. Although he knew the street he could not recall their house number. He rang at least three doorbells until he was told that the Vaughans had rented their house out some years earlier and their current address was unknown. The doorbell videos of the unaccompanied Prince on strangers’ <span id="page_375"/>doorsteps, only hours after pleading he needed armed protection, mocked his fears of assassination in London.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-895" id="en0-895" role="doc-noteref">895</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The image of Harry wandering alone down a London street reflected the Sussexes’ reality: Harry was lost in London, with frayed family links and few friends. Meghan was alone in Montecito, giving her critics the impression that she was listening again and again to her Lemonada podcasts and rewatching herself on Netflix, failing to understand why she was targeted by ridicule rather than deluged with praise.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan had just appeared on an episode of a podcast produced by the cosmetics entrepreneur Jamie Kern Lima. Widely ridiculed, it showed the two Montecito mothers having an ‘intimate’ heart-to-heart conversation. ‘My very first question,’ said Lima, ‘and I think so many people also have this question for you. Meghan, how are you? And are you OK?’</p>
<p class="txt">Appearing often on the verge of tears, Meghan spoke about her children and repeatedly referred to the ‘power of yet’ as her parenting philosophy to boost her kids’ esteem. She spoke of the ‘power of yet’ as if it was her own invention, but the concept was well known, and had even featured on <em>Sesame Street</em> eleven years earlier.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-896" id="en0-896" role="doc-noteref">896</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Meghan appeared to be clinging to her children to promote herself generally. ‘Rare’ photos became a blizzard of images. Archie was shown feeding fish in the garden and watering plants; Lilibet was playing with Serena Williams. More photos followed, taken on Mother’s Day and at ‘incredibly special’ birthday parties, also in the kitchen making bagels and Valentine cakes,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-897" id="en0-897" role="doc-noteref">897</a></sup> in the garden picking roses, on their Montecito balcony looking at the ocean, cuddling on the beach on a ‘surprise’ holiday, and so many more. The question was whether Meghan wanted her children, who were addressed on her insistence as ‘prince’ and ‘princess’, to lead normal lives. In Britain, many royal children, including those of Anne, Princess Royal, never used their titles. ‘I think everyone has a basic right to privacy,’ <span id="page_376"/>Meghan had told Oprah Winfrey. Her children were not being given that choice.</p>
<p class="txt">In the midst of her conversation with Jamie Lima, Meghan pulled out a letter from her children. ‘I wasn’t expecting this,’ she simpered. Blinking back tears she recited their ‘love’ for her and soulfully put the letter back in her pocket.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Meghan’s not spontaneous,’ recalled Thomas Markle. ‘Everything she says is pre-planned and rehearsed. I know when she’s faking it for the cameras. She’s trying so hard to be perfect that she tenses up every time the camera is on her. Unfortunately, Meghan has never been authentic.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-898" id="en0-898" role="doc-noteref">898</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In her Lemonada podcasts and Netflix series, Meghan focused on self-discovery and self-love. Whitney Wolfe Herd, the co-founder of Tinder and once the world’s youngest female self-made billionaire, was the star of the first episode, recorded just before As Ever’s products were launched. The dominant theme was Meghan’s description of her own crisis at 3am the previous night. She was ‘absolutely consumed’ about the packaging for the As Ever products. ‘Boxes. It’s all I could think about,’ she said. ‘My brain went in a loop and you can’t stop overthinking. I would sit there doing the unboxing in my head. Is there tissue paper? What about the packing of peanuts, but they’re biodegradable? Where does the sticker go and what size is the box going to be?’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-899" id="en0-899" role="doc-noteref">899</a></sup> By the time the episode was streamed, the truth about As Ever was known.</p>
<p class="txt">The podcast series swiftly fell out of Spotify’s top 100 and never reached Apple’s top 200. Insiders leaked that Beyoncé and Taylor Swift had rejected Meghan’s handwritten invitations to appear. Instead, Meghan interviewed Beyoncé’s mother, Tina Knowles, a 71-year-old former hairstylist.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-900" id="en0-900" role="doc-noteref">900</a></sup> Initially, the producers decided the interview was best forgotten. Then, at the last moment, to avoid insulting Beyoncé, it was posted. Focused on Meghan’s business life, the highlight was her anticipation of a future business partnership with Lilibet.</p>
<p class="txt">And then in mid-April 2025, another ‘turning point’ fizzled out. <span id="page_377"/>Netflix announced that a second season of <em>With Love, Meghan</em> had been recorded and would be streamed. But other than sticking a label on her chosen Napa Valley rosé wine manufactured by the Fairwinds Estate, the Sussexes’ future was uncertain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-901" id="en0-901" role="doc-noteref">901</a></sup> There was nothing gloriously new to be unveiled. Harry and Meghan faced unemployment and a diminishing income.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan’s neighbour Ted Sarandos compounded her misery by ending the rolling contract that had started in 2020.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-902" id="en0-902" role="doc-noteref">902</a></sup> Three months earlier, Sarandos had praised Meghan as ‘underestimated in terms of her influence on culture. People are fascinated with Meghan Markle.’ But since then, Netflix’s auditors had scrutinised Meghan’s value. Despite radical changes, her second series, due to be streamed in August 2025, was less promising than the first. Meghan simply portrayed her idyllic lifestyle and confessed that she could not cook. Her recipe for roast chicken was utterly conventional and she admitted, ‘I don’t like baking because it’s so measured.’ Swishing around her rented kitchen, she watched a succession of uninspiring chefs perform, accompanied by a series of inconsequential conversations and autobiographical anecdotes, all punctuated by her word-salad phrases that included ‘moving meditation’ and ‘creating calm’.</p>
<p class="txt">To mitigate the outcome, Sarandos agreed that Netflix would possibly commission a third series of Meghan’s show. First, she would need to provide an outline of the content. Netflix would have first refusal on her synopsis. To further soften the blow, Netflix’s publicists offered as Sarandos’s sign-off quote: ‘She’s a rock star. She’s got a purpose, building a new world.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-903" id="en0-903" role="doc-noteref">903</a></sup> Later, Sarandos added that the series, rated number 136 on Netflix’s charts after two weeks, was ‘successful on every level’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-904" id="en0-904" role="doc-noteref">904</a></sup> Netflix’s financial risk was minimal. Meghan was on her own, but that did not deter her from boasting that Netflix had assigned eighty people to develop As Ever. ‘The two of us together make an incredible partnership,’ she said unblinkingly.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-905" id="en0-905" role="doc-noteref">905</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_378"/>Meghan’s next decisions suggested that she blamed her employees for the mishits. She once again approved dismissals – more radical ones than ever. Meredith Maines took control of the firing and hiring.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-906" id="en0-906" role="doc-noteref">906</a></sup> Contrary to Ashley Hansen’s portrait of Montecito’s ‘zen’ atmosphere as ‘always very calm and peaceful and warm’,<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-907" id="en0-907" role="doc-noteref">907</a></sup> an eyewitness recalled ‘submerged hysteria’. Maines’s statement sought to hide the mayhem: ‘As the Duke and Duchess’s business and philanthropic interests grow, I have made the strategic decision to move toward a more traditional communications structure of specialist agency support.’</p>
<p class="txt">Maines’s task was to restore the Sussexes’ status. Too many admitted that association with the Sussexes risked a backlash. Since nominations to receive awards no longer arrived and invitations to celebrity parties had dried up, Meghan seized the offer of an award for championing women at the Los Angeles Natural History Museum gala. The award was approved by the co-chairman, Rick Genow, her long-serving lawyer. Soon after, the event was postponed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-908" id="en0-908" role="doc-noteref">908</a></sup> The only opportunity for exposure was <em>Time</em> magazine’s 100 Summit in New York.</p>
<p class="txt"><em>Time</em>’s organisers had been surprised that Meghan accepted the invitation to be interviewed on stage. Not only were the Sussexes not listed among the magazine’s ‘Most Influential’ but <em>Time</em> had slammed <em>With Love, Meghan</em> under the headline ‘A Royal Prime on Entertaining That Couldn’t Be More Boring’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-909" id="en0-909" role="doc-noteref">909</a></sup> But having lost support from <em>Vanity Fair</em> and <em>New York</em> Magazine, the Sussexes needed allies and, Meghan insisted, positive exposure.</p>
<p class="txt">A four-car convoy – two police cars, one for their bodyguards and their own SUV – arrived on 23rd April at the police-guarded Manhattan venue. Wearing a £3,755 Ralph Lauren trouser suit and jewellery worth tens of thousands of pounds, including a diamond piece given to her by King Charles, Meghan emerged flustered from the SUV. Disappointed by the absence of a crowd – just two elderly ladies stood behind the police line<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-910" id="en0-910" role="doc-noteref">910</a></sup> – she theatrically embraced a waiting staffer for the camera <span id="page_379"/>and was ushered backstage. Standing with <em>Time</em>’s editor-in-chief Sam Jacobs before entering the spotlight, she shunned approaches by the representatives of the magazine’s commercial partners, including Amazon and Pfizer. Noticeably, she was contemplating her rehearsed lines.</p>
<p class="txt">The night before, Kate had posted a video of Louis on his seventh birthday running around Anmer Hall on the Sandringham estate. Hours later, Meghan posted an Instagram of herself kissing Harry. But unexpectedly that morning, British newspapers had also published a birthday photo of Louis, without two front teeth, sitting on a tree stump in a field of bluebells. Before going on stage, Meghan had clearly calculated her response.</p>
<p class="txt">The magazine’s chief executive Jessica Sibley welcomed Meghan in the hall for a session entitled ‘The Power of Flower Sprinkles’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-911" id="en0-911" role="doc-noteref">911</a></sup> After some mutual gushing, Meghan spoke about her ‘busy and ambitious’ year. Turning to the audience, Sibley asked how many had watched Meghan’s show. Six hands rose, including Harry’s. Meghan’s smile did not falter. To conceal an awkward moment she urged the audience to ‘add a little splash of magic’ to every day with flower sprinkles. Sibley showered more praise on her guest. Then Meghan retaliated against the news coming from London.</p>
<p class="txt">Archie’s first tooth, Meghan proudly announced, was loose. The tooth fairy intended to rush 3,000 miles back to Montecito ‘in time for it – that is all that matters’. As a parent, she told the audience, everything ‘becomes so microscopic in importance compared to what’s happening with your children’. Sibley’s beam never faded. The fate of Archie’s tooth was serious news. The session ended with applause.</p>
<p class="txt">The following night, the Sussexes failed to appear as expected at <em>Time</em>’s gala party in the Lincoln Center. Some assumed Meghan had indeed returned to Montecito.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-912" id="en0-912" role="doc-noteref">912</a></sup> Instead, she and Harry spoke at the ‘Lost Screen Memorial’ to about fifty parents in memory of their children who had died, casualties of social media.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-913" id="en0-913" role="doc-noteref">913</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_380"/>Meghan’s speech was familiar: ‘I’m told that in 2019, I was the most trolled person in the entire world – male or female.’ And during eight months of that year, she said, ‘I wasn’t even visible. I was on maternity leave with a baby. It’s almost unsurvivable.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-914" id="en0-914" role="doc-noteref">914</a></sup> Meghan’s memory was imperfect but few would have remembered that she had been frequently seen, not least at her baby shower in New York.</p>
<p class="txt">A private jet flew the Sussexes back to Santa Barbara. Early on 2nd May, Meghan posted photographs of Harry and their two children in the garden. As presumably intended, the photos overshadowed that day’s birthday picture of Charlotte, Kate’s ten-year-old daughter. Hours later, the High Court delivered its verdict on Harry’s four-year battle against the government for armed protection. Harry had lost.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-915" id="en0-915" role="doc-noteref">915</a></sup> He was ‘devastated’, said Maines.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-916" id="en0-916" role="doc-noteref">916</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">No one apparently offered Harry judicious advice to accept defeat gracefully. His lawyers had scuttled away, pocketing at least £1.5 million. Holed up in Montecito, he lamented, ‘I wish someone had told me beforehand that there was no way to win.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-917" id="en0-917" role="doc-noteref">917</a></sup> Even less help came from Meghan. Caution was also alien to Maines. ‘Harry wants to strike while the iron is hot,’ she was told. She supported Harry’s wish to be interviewed in Los Angeles by the BBC.</p>
<p class="txt">Maines had made the arrangements for a ‘victory’ interview before the verdict was announced. Usually, she would have approached a BBC editor in London, then waited for a reporter to be assigned. But Meghan had been wooing the BBC’s UN correspondent in New York, Nada Tawfik. She especially liked Tawfik’s critical coverage of Donald Trump’s anti-migrant policies. In Tawfik’s favour was also her lack of knowledge of the Royal Family. Her questions would not be forensic and, critically, she would not challenge Harry from either the Palace’s or the government’s perspective. Offered an exclusive by Tawfik, the BBC’s editors in London failed to grasp how they were being played. Instead of sending an experienced royal correspondent, <span id="page_381"/>they agreed that Tawfik should fly to Los Angeles before the verdict was announced.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-918" id="en0-918" role="doc-noteref">918</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">After Tawfik was told that Harry had lost the case, she assumed that the interview would be cancelled. Instead, she was told to meet Harry at a house in Santa Barbara owned by an acquaintance of the Sussexes. Shortly after the setting up of the camera, Harry appeared with Maines. ‘He seemed properly thrown off course,’ said a BBC eyewitness. ‘He had not cooled down.’ His first comments were about antagonistic British journalists. Agitated, he sat down for what was planned as a ten-minute interview. He could not stop talking.</p>
<p class="txt">As usual, his agenda looked like vengeance. The privileged Prince was outraged that politicians, officials and judges led by the King himself had refused to bow to his wishes.</p>
<p class="txt">‘I have all of the truth,’ he told the camera.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-919" id="en0-919" role="doc-noteref">919</a></sup> During the legal process, he said, ‘I have discovered that some people want history to repeat itself, which is pretty dark.’ Harry meant that the same courtiers in Buckingham Palace who ‘preyed upon my mother . . . continue to incite hatred towards me, my wife and even our children’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-920" id="en0-920" role="doc-noteref">920</a></sup> He added that, ‘All I’ve been asking for is safety.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-921" id="en0-921" role="doc-noteref">921</a></sup> He damned Buckingham Palace officials for having ‘won in keeping me unsafe [and] knowingly put me and my family in harm’s way’. He blamed a ‘good old-fashioned Establishment stitch-up’ for losing in court and lamented, ‘It’s really quite sad that I won’t be able to show my children my homeland.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-922" id="en0-922" role="doc-noteref">922</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The climax was Harry’s accusation that the King was entirely to blame. ‘There is a lot of control and ability in my father’s hands. Ultimately, this whole thing could be resolved through him. Not necessarily by intervening but by stepping aside, allowing the experts to do what is necessary.’ That was precisely Ravec’s role. Harry was clearly confused. Initially, he had demanded that his father should interfere but finally lamented that he had not. Harry never understood that if he had met his father and then reported any suggested ‘conversation’ between <span id="page_382"/>them about the court case, the constitutional consequences would have been incalculable.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s confession revealed his desperation. Fearing that his brother, as king, could banish him from Britain, he pleaded, ‘There’s no point to fight any more. Life is precious.’ And then with calculated heartlessness, he added, <strong>‘</strong>I don’t know how much longer my father has. He won’t speak to me because of this security stuff. It would be nice to reconcile.’</p>
<p class="txt">Buckingham Palace was caught out by the interview. Given just thirty minutes’ notice before its broadcast, the BBC refused the Palace the opportunity to reply. Palace officials believed the BBC’s editors had betrayed them. They had pandered to the Sussexes’ scheme. Even the BBC’s royal correspondent Sean Coughlan was surprised by the corporation’s prejudice.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-923" id="en0-923" role="doc-noteref">923</a></sup> Eventually, the BBC apologised for their mistake. Reflecting the King’s anger, Buckingham Palace posted its own statement: ‘All of these issues have been examined repeatedly and meticulously by the courts, with the same conclusion reached on each occasion.’ On GB News, Harry was accused of being ‘deluded and desperate’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-924" id="en0-924" role="doc-noteref">924</a></sup> Overnight, Harry reflected on his interview and spoke of his ‘love for reconciliation’. He had ‘forgiven’ Charles and William.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Harry has simply lost touch with reality,’ a Palace official eventually volunteered. ‘He’s deluded. He went scorched earth, which was foolish. The man doesn’t get the message.’ Courtiers mentioned that Harry had chosen to leave Britain, wanted privileges when he returned and no one had asked him to come back.</p>
<p class="txt">The Palace’s anger was not limited to Harry’s interview. On the eve of the VE Day commemorations on 8th May, the Palace appealed to the media not to focus on the family drama. Inevitably, King Charles’s and William’s solemn appearances at parades and church services were overshadowed by the Prince of Montecito’s TV interview.</p>
<p class="txt">‘When history comes to be written about the King, this will reflect badly on him,’ wrote Peter Hunt, a former BBC royal correspondent. <span id="page_383"/>The striking failure of King Charles’s reign was his inability to heal the rift with Harry. ‘The King represents an institution that is about family, unity and fostering forgiveness. His role is to bring people together and yet he can’t bring people together on his doorstep.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-925" id="en0-925" role="doc-noteref">925</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Nine days after Harry’s BBC interview, Meghan posted a picture of herself with her two children marking Mother’s Day. In a move surely designed to irritate the Palace, they were captioned ‘prince’ and ‘princess’. Meghan played up to William’s nightmare – a rival court in California.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-926" id="en0-926" role="doc-noteref">926</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Staying in the spotlight was Meghan’s weapon for survival. Releasing photos and videos guaranteed her credibility. Invisibility was inconceivable. Ridicule was the risk she faced. Both Sussexes were going for broke.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>