<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 42</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct42" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct42"><span id="page_384"/>CHAPTER 42</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>The Last Calamity</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">‘She messed it up. She’s run out of steam,’ concluded Ella Robertson three years after Meghan’s ill-fated appearance at the One Young World Summit in Manchester. ‘She’s got an identity crisis.’</p>
<p class="txt">Even though her Netflix series <em>With Love, Meghan</em> was slick, the ridicule on social media was toxic. Meredith Maines recommended an aggressive response to highlight Meghan’s authenticity.</p>
<p class="txt">Hoping that public curiosity would secure Netflix’s commission of a third series, Meghan celebrated Lilibet’s fourth birthday on 4th June with three posts for her now 3.9 million followers, including a photo of Lilibet collecting honey.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-927" id="en0-927" role="doc-noteref">927</a></sup> Next, she posted a homemade video of herself jerking energetically up and down to the soundtrack of Starrkeisha’s ‘The Baby Momma Dance’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-928" id="en0-928" role="doc-noteref">928</a></sup> It had been recorded in a hospital delivery room in 2021 when the heavily pregnant Meghan had apparently been trying to induce Lilibet’s birth. Harry slinked in and out of view, pressing his groin close to the lens. In the background was the delivery chair.</p>
<p class="txt">Within twenty-four hours, the video had been viewed 20 million times. ‘You have to be authentic,’ Meghan would tell businesswoman Emma Grede. ‘Whatever people do, there’s still a whole life – a real, <span id="page_385"/>authentic, fun life – that’s happening behind the scenes.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-929" id="en0-929" role="doc-noteref">929</a></sup> She believed that Americans appreciated her humour. The predictably crusty British reaction was irrelevant. ‘Twerking’ marked her eighth return since 2020 to social media: ‘It was a great way to get my voice back. It’s my space and my channel of joy.’</p>
<p class="txt">Amid the deluge of comments, a minority praised Meghan’s humour.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-930" id="en0-930" role="doc-noteref">930</a></sup> The majority mentioned that the privacy seeker’s video was scarcely believable, cringeworthy and embarrassing. A vocal few were convinced that Meghan’s ‘moon bump’ was fake and proved that her children were delivered by surrogates.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-931" id="en0-931" role="doc-noteref">931</a></sup> Most agreed it was a bizarre dance to choose before childbirth, odd that it should be filmed and incredible how Meghan calculated that posting the video four years after her birth could be advantageous.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-932" id="en0-932" role="doc-noteref">932</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">More substantially, few could understand Meghan’s estimation that her performance reinforced her status as a serious player. Just who did Meghan hope to influence favourably? Did she realise the risks of being judged as an attention-hunting celebrity? The denizens of the fashion and lifestyle world expected their models to be coolly sophisticated rather than recklessly vulgar.</p>
<p class="txt">Among her defenders was the US tech entrepreneur Christopher Bouzy. ‘Every joyful moment,’ he wrote, ‘gets twisted into ammunition by people who’ve made destroying her their full-time job. This isn’t normal criticism. It’s psychological torture designed to break someone’s spirit. Meghan Markle is a mother who can’t share her joy without it being weaponised against her. And we need to talk about what this sustained cruelty has done to a woman whose only crime was falling in love with a prince.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-933" id="en0-933" role="doc-noteref">933</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">To boost her cause, ‘Meghan, Duchess of Sussex’ posted another mass of images. She posed wearing a range of white clothes on a beach; shared family snaps taken during a visit to Disneyland; displayed herself with As Ever’s apricot spread, honey and rosé wine, and, finally, there was a <span id="page_386"/>video of Harry with both children at all ages and in different locations, revealing their faces.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-934" id="en0-934" role="doc-noteref">934</a></sup> A hallowed principle had been abandoned.</p>
<p class="txt">Meghan and Harry were struggling to halt the downward spiral. The momentum needed to be reversed to guarantee their financial security. Rather than hunkering down, they both doubled their efforts to be seen.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry went back on the road. First, he flew to Shanghai to promote Travalyst at a tourism conference.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-935" id="en0-935" role="doc-noteref">935</a></sup> Few had expected to see him there, but he probably enjoyed overshadowing his father’s visit to Canada to open parliament – the first by a monarch since 1957. Despite his illness, the King completed a 24-hour round trip to support the new government’s rallying cry against Donald Trump.</p>
<p class="txt">One month later on 29th June, Harry spoke in New York at the Nexus Global Summit ‘Bold Voice Brave Ideas’. Introduced as a global humanitarian, his session was titled ‘Building Tomorrow: A Conversation on Service, Impact &amp; Collective Action with Prince Harry’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-936" id="en0-936" role="doc-noteref">936</a></sup> Instead of delivering a carefully crafted speech, Harry rambled about his familiar troubles and advocated that young people should be allowed to lead the world before instantly contradicting himself: ‘I think that the longer that we are on Planet Earth the more experience we have.’ At the end of forty-five minutes, some in the audience were looking at their phones or exchanging exasperated looks. His bumbling performance added to the credibility of a slew of bogus YouTube videos ‘showing’ him storming out of studios after tough interviews with Graham Norton and NBC’s Savannah Guthrie. The nadir was his agreement to appear in a real estate conference staged by Power House in Toronto.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-937" id="en0-937" role="doc-noteref">937</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry had reached a crossroads. After nearly five years, his stardust was tarnished. He certainly did not contemplate leaving California in the near future, but restoring his roots in Britain had become essential. Fortunately, Meredith Maines had established a relationship with the King’s communications secretary, Tobyn Andreae, a former editorial executive at the <em>Daily Mail</em>. They agreed to meet in mid-July in London’s <span id="page_387"/>Royal Overseas League Club, overlooking Green Park. Also present was Harry’s British publicist, Liam Maguire, a Sandhurst officer with links to Invictus. Harry’s camp could not resist leaking the encounter to Charlotte Griffiths, a <em>Mail on Sunday</em> writer. In previous months, Griffiths had reported that Harry could be reconciled with his family. Her latest revelation, illustrated by a photograph of Andreae and Maines sitting together on the club’s veranda overlooking the garden, delighted Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-938" id="en0-938" role="doc-noteref">938</a></sup> He was one step closer to meeting his father. William’s anger was predictable but, for the moment, irrelevant for Harry.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry’s progress towards restoring his status in Britain was clipped by the Charity Commission’s report on Sentebale. To win in the court of public opinion, Harry relied on the commission to dismiss Sophie Chandauka’s allegations of his bullying manner, condemn her hostile takeover and restore the charity to his control. Not least, he said, because Sentebale’s coffers were empty and the charity’s operations were collapsing.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-939" id="en0-939" role="doc-noteref">939</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The conclusions depended on the judgement of the commission’s case officer, Chris Sladen, after reading thousands of pages of evidence. To oust Chandauka, Harry engaged Schillings to bombard Sladen with evidence to counter Chandauka’s arguments. Some believed Sladen was prejudiced. During their conversations, he appeared to focus on Chandauka’s conduct rather than on Harry’s.</p>
<p class="txt">In the first draft of his findings, sent to both sides for comment, Sladen criticised the charity’s poor management and ‘lack of clear policies’. But he refused to consider any complaints of individual bullying. That, he wrote, was beyond the Charity Commission’s remit. Chandauka countered that her complaint was about Harry and his supporters generating a bullying atmosphere during the Zoom executive meetings. To her surprise, the commission’s final report ignored her complaint. She suspected that it had confined its own judgement to having found ‘no widespread bullying’ due to pressure from Harry’s lawyers. The <span id="page_388"/>report, however, acknowledged ‘the strong perception of ill treatment’ was felt by some involved.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-940" id="en0-940" role="doc-noteref">940</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry seized on Sladen’s inconsequential judgement to declare that he had been personally cleared of any wrongdoing including, more particularly, bullying. ‘That’s wrong,’ said Chandauka. The commission, she rightly observed, had deliberately refused to comment on Harry’s conduct. His behaviour was neither approved nor condemned, just ignored. And equally, the commission was silent about Chandauka’s manner. To her satisfaction, despite criticising the charity’s ‘governance weaknesses’, the commission approved her continued chairmanship. Harry was barred from returning. He was furious. Sladen’s investigation, commented the self-appointed victim, had fallen ‘troublingly short’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-941" id="en0-941" role="doc-noteref">941</a></sup> The commission, fumed Harry, was ‘sitting on the fence’ because the report ‘criticised all parties’.</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka feared that Harry’s supporters were seeking to sabotage her management of Sentebale in Botswana below the radar. Not least because the Prince had pledged to build a new charity in Africa.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-942" id="en0-942" role="doc-noteref">942</a></sup> Few believed Harry’s promise. The financial and logistical obstacles were too great, and his behaviour was unpredictable.</p>
<p class="txt">In the charity’s next annual report, Chandauka would boast that Sentebale’s annual income had remained roughly the same at £3.35 million. All the institutional donors had continued their support to the benefit of 78,000 children. The charity’s future without Harry, she reported, was secure.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-943" id="en0-943" role="doc-noteref">943</a></sup> In retaliation, one of Harry’s supporters briefed <em>The Times</em> that Sentebale’s operations in Botswana were ‘not working at all’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-944" id="en0-944" role="doc-noteref">944</a></sup> The finances, Harry’s supporter claimed without providing any evidence, were ‘getting into the red’. Chandauka’s judgement of Harry did not improve: ‘He’s vengeful – capable of dehumanising others whom he treats like nonentities.’</p>
<p class="txt">Chandauka’s feelings about Harry were reflected in the anger among government ministers of the landlocked country of Chad in central <span id="page_389"/>Africa towards African Parks, Harry’s other charity on the continent. Peter Fearnhead, the charity’s secretive chief executive, was engaged in a bitter argument with Chad’s rulers over the management of the country’s Zakouma National Park. Previously hailed by the <em>New York Times</em> as ‘one of the most stunning conservation success stories in Africa’, Chad’s politicians had discovered in mid-2025 that, unknown to them, poachers had been rampant across the conservation area. Rhinos, elephants and giraffes had died or been killed. Delving into African Parks’ finances, routed through offshore accounts, the government accused African Parks of ‘incompetence’, ‘notorious financial misconduct’ and failing to protect the country’s wildlife to benefit tourism.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-945" id="en0-945" role="doc-noteref">945</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Hidden beneath the headline accusations were allegations of corruption. Seized ivory tusks had disappeared and a chunk of the €20 million donated by the European Union had been allegedly misappropriated.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-946" id="en0-946" role="doc-noteref">946</a></sup> Fearnhead’s struggle to bury the argument was over after the Chad government announced the expulsion of African Parks.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-947" id="en0-947" role="doc-noteref">947</a></sup> Carefully remaining silent, Harry had nevertheless become associated with another scandal, one eventually resolved by Fearnhead promising better performance.</p>
<p class="txt">Ignoring the latest calamity, Harry was focused on a carefully orchestrated four-day trip to Britain. Arriving on 8th September, he planned to promote himself as the smiling, generous royal serving the people. To this end, he gifted £1.1 million to Children in Need and, unusually for a royal, advertised his donation. To some, it appeared as mitigation money. His only gripe was the absence of police protection except for one day. Irritatingly, he was caught in a London traffic jam. Once again, he urged the Home Secretary to reconsider his need for protection.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-948" id="en0-948" role="doc-noteref">948</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The public’s welcome for Harry exposed the Royal Family’s vulnerability. Beset by illness and strife, the royals were testing the public’s support. As an opinion poll reported, the shine was fading. <span id="page_390"/>The monarchy’s popularity had fallen from 86 per cent in 1983 to 51 per cent. No less than 38 per cent of Britons – mostly the young, the politically left wing and immigrants – wanted an elected head of state.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-949" id="en0-949" role="doc-noteref">949</a></sup> That dismal reality might have convinced Harry about the family’s need for his services.</p>
<p class="txt">Four days earlier, a senior Buckingham Palace official was adamant that the King would not meet his son during the trip.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-950" id="en0-950" role="doc-noteref">950</a></sup> But at the last moment, Charles agreed that, after flying down from Balmoral on 10th September for his weekly medical treatment, Harry could visit him at Clarence House. That morning, according to a visitor in Balmoral, ‘the King looked very grey’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-951" id="en0-951" role="doc-noteref">951</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Their first encounter after nineteen months lasted fifty-four minutes. Harry gave Charles a family photograph but no photo of the two was taken or released. Although Meredith Maines would brief that their meeting was the beginning of a thaw and reconciliation, others told the <em>Sun</em> that it was ‘distinctly formal’, like ‘an official visit’. Four days later, under the headline ‘Reconciliation in the Air’, an anonymous insider was quoted: ‘If any details of the meeting emerge, or there is any commentary, it will be back to square one.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-952" id="en0-952" role="doc-noteref">952</a></sup> By then, though, Harry had already broken his promise of silence.</p>
<p class="txt">During a train journey into Ukraine to reinforce the country’s participation in the 2027 Invictus Games, Harry told an invited <em>Guardian</em> journalist without any hint of regret that he’d done nothing wrong. Reconciliation, he said, was only possible by telling the truth. ‘It’s not about revenge. It’s about accountability,’ he added. ‘The book? It was a series of corrections to stories already out there. One point of view had been put out and it needed to be corrected. I don’t believe that I aired my dirty laundry in public. My conscience is clear.’ Referring to Meghan, he said he had adopted her advice to ‘just stick to the truth’. Rhetorically, he asked, ‘Who would be stupid enough to lie? It takes up too much time and effort.’</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_391"/>Oblivious to that misstep, Meredith Maines continued to herald Harry’s success. Harry, she said, was fashioning a new model as a working royal. He planned, she continued, to visit Britain four or five times a year for public events. Charlotte Griffiths reported that ‘high-level talks’ were under way to bring Harry and Charles together in a public show of unity. The King, she suggested, was siding with Harry against the ‘lazy’ Prince of Wales.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-953" id="en0-953" role="doc-noteref">953</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Once again, Maines misjudged the Royal Family. In a phone call with his father, William reiterated that reconciliation with Harry was out of the question. Instantly, a Buckingham Palace courtier dampened Harry’s expectations. One visit, he disclosed, would not dispel the Royal Family’s deep suspicion. Harry would not be allowed to have a ‘half-in, half-out’ role. ‘Whoever is behind [the briefing],’ another insider said, ‘seems to have mistaken tea and a slice of cake with the Treaty of Versailles.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-954" id="en0-954" role="doc-noteref">954</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">During the following week, Harry acknowledged that his enthusiasm was misplaced. His publicist spelled out Harry’s familiar gripe against the King’s advisors: ‘The men in grey suits are sabotaging my reunion with my father.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-955" id="en0-955" role="doc-noteref">955</a></sup></p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Throughout those months, Meghan separated herself from Harry’s woes, plotting instead how to restore her status in America. Selling As Ever products depended on making repeated appearances at star-studded events, especially after her second series ranked 383rd on Netflix’s chart. Critics of the series were puzzled by the contrived enthusiasm between Meghan and her guests and doubted any particular attraction of the As Ever sprinkles and wine. Few could grasp Meghan’s pitch for $14 raspberry ‘spreads’ – the word ‘jam’ had been discarded because her concoction was too runny. Supposedly, the spread was carefully produced in her own kitchen surrounded by caring ‘friends’ and her <span id="page_392"/>excited children rather than manufactured in Illinois. Who, those same critics wondered, aspired to copy someone who claimed, ‘I think there is a lot of value when you anchor into your own knowing’? <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-956" id="en0-956" role="doc-noteref">956</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Undeterred as usual by any shortcomings, Meghan planned the sale of her Christmas collection, including a ‘Signature Fruit Spread gift set’ priced at $42, a candle ‘scented with Moroccan mint, cardamom and tea leaves’, which for $64 promised to ‘evoke the freshness of a day in the English countryside’, and sage honey with honeycomb, which for $32 held ‘a special place in Meghan’s heart’. Topping the products was an unexceptional bottle of white wine for $89.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-957" id="en0-957" role="doc-noteref">957</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Her 54-minute Netflix Christmas special to sell her wares suffered from the familiar flaws. Not least that her ceaseless ‘joy’ appeared to be breathlessly contrived and her emphasis on love for her ‘family’ at Christmas jarred with her deliberate estrangement from her father, her mother’s relations and the Royal Family. Pulling Christmas crackers with the family, she explained to an unknown guest, ‘really feels connective and sweet’. The <em>Daily Telegraph</em>’s headline would be: ‘Meghan’s Christmas Special Is Quite Mad and a Little Bit Sad’.</p>
<p class="txt">Over the previous months, Meghan’s staff and agent were galvanised to negotiate engagements in Hollywood, Los Angeles, Washington, New York and Paris. The prelude to her publicity blitz was an unexpected appearance at Kevin Costner’s annual Santa Barbara party to support the local emergency services. The previous year, she had disdained the event, but now her need for publicity overrode any concern. Overdressed for the event, she was wearing $325,000-worth of jewellery, her publicist revealed. Inevitably, it included a piece originally owned by Diana.</p>
<p class="txt">On Lilibet’s fourth birthday, Meghan first thanked Disney in what appeared to be a paid promotion: ‘Thank you, Disneyland, for giving our family two days of pure joy.’ Next, while Trump heaped praise in his speech on William as a ‘remarkable son’ during his triumphant state dinner at Windsor Castle, an Instagram video appeared of Meghan <span id="page_393"/>caring for strawberry plants in her garden. In reserve was the revelation that she had secured a cameo appearance playing herself in <em>Close Personal Friends</em>, a small-budget Amazon film to be shot in Pasadena. Although many would carp that the B-list actress abandoned by Hollywood in 2017 appeared to be desperate for a comeback, the announcement would guarantee publicity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-958" id="en0-958" role="doc-noteref">958</a></sup> And then she made a surprise appearance at Paris fashion week.</p>
<p class="txt">The coup was masterminded by Meghan herself. Balenciaga, she knew, had been ‘cancelled’ in 2022 for featuring children alongside fetish-themed teddy bears. In the aftermath of the uproar, Balenciaga had hired a new creative director, Pierpaolo Piccioli, previously employed by Valentino. Meghan had worn a few of Piccioli’s costumes. She called him with a suggestion. In return for all her expenses, she would make a surprise entrance at his show. In the battle against their rivals for publicity, Balenciaga calculated Meghan’s proposal was a no-brainer. Nicole Kidman was paid millions of dollars by Chanel, so $250,000 for Meghan’s expenses was comparatively cheap.</p>
<p class="txt">Accompanied by her make-up artist Daniel Martin, a stylist and a press spokesman, Meghan secretly arrived on 4th October in the Plaza Athénée Hotel, the rendezvous for every fashionista visiting the capital. She was assigned the $22,000-per-night four-bedroom suite. None of the assembled photographers around the hotel knew where she was heading as she walked through the lobby dressed in a stunning Balenciaga white trouser and cape outfit. For a brief moment, the spectator of fashion shows had transformed herself into a glittering performer.</p>
<p class="txt">Even the empress of fashion, <em>Vogue</em>’s Anna Wintour, was already sitting at the Balenciaga show looking at two empty seats beside actress Tracy Ross. Twenty seconds before the lights dimmed, Meghan made a royal entrance. By then, the photographs of her exit from the hotel were zooming around the world. ‘You look wonderful,’ Wintour told the Duchess after the show. The only hiccups during those minutes were <span id="page_394"/>actress Kristin Scott Thomas appearing to turn sharply away as Meghan started to speak to her; a video posted of Meghan laughing after a model slipped on the runway; and a self-made video posted by Meghan of her drive back to the hotel in a limousine, insensitively passing the site of Diana’s fatal crash in 1997.</p>
<p class="txt">That evening, she did not go to Balenciaga’s after party but headed to a restaurant with Soho House’s Markus Anderson, once she had posted a glowing testimonial to Piccioli. She recalled that they had ‘worked closely together collaborating on design for key moments on the world stage . . . This evening reflects the culmination of many years’ artistry and friendship.’ Hours later, Piccioli dismissed Meghan’s version of events, telling <em>The Cut</em> magazine that he had not invited her to the show in Paris. She had instead asked Piccioli whether she could come.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-959" id="en0-959" role="doc-noteref">959</a></sup> His apparent snub did not undermine the stunning images of the white-clad duchess, though.</p>
<p class="txt">Next, Meghan was with Harry in New York to receive the ‘Humanitarians of the Year’ award from the insignificant Project Healthy Minds group, who were delighted by the publicity she bestowed. The following day, she appeared on stage at <em>Fortune</em> magazine’s Most Powerful Women event in Washington. Billed as a ‘high-profile, highly scrutinised founder’, Meghan spoke about ‘how she plans to leverage her significant influence to build a successful, long-lasting business empire’. Noticeably, she steered clear of any questions. The event was largely ignored by the public.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-960" id="en0-960" role="doc-noteref">960</a></sup> In between these events, she posted a video clip of herself with four-year-old Lilibet on International Day of the Girl. Her caption was the hope that her daughter would become ‘an activist’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-961" id="en0-961" role="doc-noteref">961</a></sup> Once again, Archie was not included.</p>
<p class="txt">During those days, slickly edited videos were posted of her appearances, clothes, accessories and make-up accompanied by name-dropping of the ‘stars’ the self-appointed ‘hostess’ met, including Serena Williams, Ed Sheeran, <em>Vogue</em>’s new editor Chloe Malle and Gloria Steinem. And then <span id="page_395"/>some cracks started to appear. Together, Meghan and Harry looked tired. In New York, they seemed to be arguing after Meghan pushed Harry’s hand away. There was good reason for the tension.</p>
<p class="txt">In her latest bid to reposition herself from a fashion plate into a powerful, commercial and mature influencer of consequence, Meghan had approached <em>Harper’s Bazaar</em>, her trusted promoter, to signal the transition to her new status. Or, as she would call her make-or-break bid for commercial success during two lengthy interviews, ‘her own next chapter’. Part one of the interview was deliberately in public – in Beverly Hills’s Polo Lounge – and part two in Victoria Jackson’s New York house shortly before she received the Humanitarian Award.</p>
<p class="txt"><em>Harper’s</em> agreed to feature Meghan on the front cover of its valuable Christmas issue with the caption ‘Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, Meets Her Moment’. Taking a risk, Meghan had agreed to pose for a series of photographs showing a mature woman seemingly without make-up – or in the industry jargon, ‘no make-up make-up’. The resulting cover picture did not flatter the 44-year-old. Neither did the other photographs of her modelling clothes and jewellery, nor the interview. After years of uproar, Meghan’s protest to <em>Harper’s</em> ’ Kaitlyn Greenidge that because of ‘Megxit’, she had ‘lost her agency and her humanity’ was guaranteed to rile the victims of her Oprah Winfrey interview. Angered by the clamour of her critics, she intimated that her desire was to ‘break through that noise so people see that she is authentically trying to be herself’. Puncturing that image, Greenidge sneaked one mocking anecdote into her article. As she entered Jackson’s house, the butler announced ‘Meghan, Duchess of Sussex’ to an empty room.</p>
<p class="txt">‘Authenticity’ in Meghan-speak signalled her latest demand for the world to recognise that her influence was based neither on ‘deference nor dominance’ but on her ‘natural affability’. Or her genuine warmth towards everyone. Definitely not thanks to any sense of entitlement bequeathed by her marriage and royal title. Fiercely excluded <span id="page_396"/>from the ‘warmth’ was her father. Once again, <em>Harper’s</em> presented a distorted version of familiar milestones in her biography: Meghan lived throughout her schooldays with her mother – a gross error; she witnessed the 1992 Los Angeles riots – something her father had convincingly denied because he instantly drove her out of the city to safety; and that she had persuaded Procter &amp; Gamble to abandon female stereotyping – which the company itself and her father had also emphatically contradicted.</p>
<p class="txt">As usual, Meghan steered the interview into two familiar zones. First, her children. ‘I hope they see the value of being brave,’ she said. Bravery, according to Meghan, was her children watching her cook, ‘when the jam was just a pot on the stove bubbling’. Secondly, she spoke about Harry: ‘He loves me so boldly, fully . . . No one in the world loves me more than him.’ That endearment was followed by a revelation about her husband: ‘You have someone who just has this childlike wonder and playfulness.’ In Meghan’s version, Harry’s foolish innocence enhanced her sense of fun. Her only error, she admitted, was trying to be ‘perfect’. That, she said, was ‘not a lot of fun’. Not least because ‘I, too, make mistakes.’ They were not listed.</p>
<p class="txt">In common with all her previous interviews, ‘Meghan’s Moment’ was another step on the familiar treadmill to establish her relevance and importance. But in delivering her thoughts and childhood memories, Meghan once again revealed a lack of any substance. After hours of interviews, even the favourably disposed Greenidge described a woman whose fame was entirely based on her marriage.</p>
<p class="txt">While deciding on the launch date of Netflix’s trailer for her new series, and before announcing the <em>Harper’s</em> interview, Meghan’s publicists spotted that Kate would be attending the Royal Variety Performance in London on 19th November. A clash, but also perhaps perfect timing. The contrast of Kate celebrating while Meghan was selling was ignored. For Meghan, ‘Meeting her Moment’ in the days before Christmas was <span id="page_397"/>make or break. If all those carefully organised events failed to relaunch her in 2026, the Sussexes’ future would become bleak.</p>
<p class="txt">Officials at Kensington Palace would have also monitored the Sussexes’ agenda. With the summer holidays over, William was geared to counter-attack. In preparation, he had co-operated in lengthy newspaper profiles about modernising the monarchy and prioritising his family after experiencing bereavement and the stress of Kate’s illness.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-962" id="en0-962" role="doc-noteref">962</a></sup> In an unconventional TV interview with the Canadian comedy actor Eugene Levy, he pointedly declared his refusal to be overawed by history. During his reign, he volunteered, the monarchy would certainly be changed. Noticeably, during those interviews, William added little reassurance that as King, the monarchy would recover from the doldrums and restore its popularity.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-963" id="en0-963" role="doc-noteref">963</a></sup> Many hurdles stood in his way.</p>
<p class="txt">William’s mood had hardened after the Duchess of Kent’s funeral at Westminster Cathedral on 16th September. In front of the public and cameras, Prince Andrew attempted to engage William in conversation. William was clearly irritated. The prospect of living close to his uncle after his family moved to Forest Lodge in Windsor Great Park was alarming, especially after the recent publication of <em>Entitled</em> by Andrew Lownie, a book exposing the Prince’s sordid, corrupt lifestyle. Soon after, William flew to Balmoral to discuss with the King the family’s predicament. ‘Life for the King and Queen is hell right now,’ a close relative of Camilla revealed. William found his father unusually distraught. Depressed by his own health and Camilla’s ailments, the King was fretting about Harry and Andrew. Indecisive at the best of times, the King despaired about his predicament. William forcefully demanded a solution to the Andrew and Harry problems.</p>
<p class="txt">Ever since Virginia Giuffre, an American girl abused and trafficked by the convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, filed a legal claim in 2014 in Florida against Andrew, Charles and his mother, Queen Elizabeth, had tried to believe Andrew’s denials of any connection to Giuffre. <span id="page_398"/>By then, ‘Randy Andy’’s relationship with Epstein, whom he met in 1999 through socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, had been revealed to have been partly based on Epstein paying young girls to meet Andrew. Epstein’s pimping was repaid by invitations to Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle, Sandringham and Royal Ascot.</p>
<p class="txt">The Royal Family’s support for Andrew had collapsed after his interview on BBC TV’s <em>Newsnight</em> in November 2019. His denial of knowing Virginia Giuffre was undermined by a photograph taken by Epstein in 2001 of the two together in Ghislaine Maxwell’s London flat. Andrew claimed that the photograph was faked. His folly of exposing himself to interrogation was compounded by his lack of contrition or any expression of sympathy for Epstein’s young victims. The popular impression was that Andrew had lied during the interview.</p>
<p class="txt">At the time, no one knew about Epstein’s email to Maxwell, sent in July 2011, soon after the photo was published, recording the paedophile’s confirmation: ‘She [Giuffre] had her picture taken with Andrew.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-964" id="en0-964" role="doc-noteref">964</a></sup> The photo was genuine. Equally importantly, no one knew about another simultaneous email exchange in which Epstein accused Giuffre of lying about her sexual relationship with Andrew and other famous men. Andrew’s lawyers had failed to obtain those emails from the US Department of Justice, but Epstein’s other emails cast doubt on its veracity.</p>
<p class="txt">By early 2022, Giuffre’s legal claim against Andrew was well advanced and threatened to overshadow the Queen’s jubilee celebrations. To settle the case on the eve of Andrew being compelled to testify in America, Giuffre was paid an estimated £12 million. The settlement and the earlier removal, on the Queen’s orders, of some of Andrew’s titles and privileges with the understanding that he would retreat from public life, did not end the saga. Hanging over Andrew were the contents of Epstein’s voluminous files and emails, sealed under a legal embargo but reversible by a Congressional vote.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_399"/>In his <em>Newsnight</em> interview, Andrew denied contacting Epstein ever again after his visit to New York on 5th December 2010. According to Andrew, he had flown to New York especially to terminate their relationship. Memorably, as they walked through Central Park, their ‘final’ encounter was recorded by a <em>News of the World</em> photographer. Fifteen years later, on 12th October 2025, Andrew’s lie was exposed.</p>
<p class="txt">The <em>Mail on Sunday</em> published an email sent by Andrew to Epstein twelve weeks after their 2010 meeting. Clearly, Andrew had panicked after the unexpected first publication of the 2001 photograph of himself with Virginia Giuffre and Ghislaine Maxwell. Andrew could not have forgotten about a succession of emails he sent Epstein over the next four years starting with, ‘I’m just as concerned for you,’ Andrew emailed Epstein. ‘Don’t worry about me! Otherwise keep in close touch and we’ll play some more soon!!!!’ His email was signed, ‘A. HRH Duke of York, KG.’ Pertinently, he did not question the authenticity of the photograph.</p>
<p class="txt">The publication of Andrew’s email in October 2025 caused panic in the Palace. A dithering sick king surrounded by obedient advisors in a seemingly rudderless court was ill-equipped to manage his brother, who had now been exposed as an outright liar. The Queen’s attempt to prevent more reputational damage to the Royal Family by removing some of Andrew’s titles and privileges had clearly failed. The threat of worse to come once other emails between Andrew and Epstein were released was serious and uncontrollable. Among those unpublished exchanges was an email from Andrew to Epstein in 2011 showing that under pressure, Andrew had lost his self-control: ‘I can’t take any more of this my end.’ Strenuously pleading his innocence and ignorance about Giuffre’s allegations, Andrew urged Epstein to ‘state clearly that I knew and know nothing about any of these allegations’. Only fourteen years later, in late 2025, did the Palace and politicians become aware of those exchanges.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_400"/>During the five days after the <em>Mail on Sunday</em>’s publication of Andrew’s first email to Epstein, William heaped pressure on his father to end the torrid saga. In turn, Charles and his private secretary spoke to Andrew. Finally, Andrew surrendered. He gave up the Garter and all his titles including the Duke of York. His ex-wife Sarah also lost her title, reverting to plain Sarah Ferguson.</p>
<p class="txt">But there were caveats. Andrew remained a prince, said the Palace, because removing his birth title would require an Act of Parliament. For similar legal reasons, he could not be forced to leave Royal Lodge, his thirty-room mansion in Windsor Park. Andrew would, however, be banned from family events, including Christmas at Sandringham. In his own statement, Andrew reaffirmed that ‘I vigorously deny the accusations against me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-965" id="en0-965" role="doc-noteref">965</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The damaging headlines continued. The harmful revelations published over the following days included that Andrew had asked Scotland Yard to help with an investigation into Giuffre’s background and that he was paying a ‘peppercorn’ rent until 2078 for his residence at Royal Lodge. Giuffre had committed suicide in April 2025 and her posthumous autobiography, <em>Nobody’s Girl</em>, was about to be published, detailing the woman’s suffering of sexual abuse, including that from Andrew.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-966" id="en0-966" role="doc-noteref">966</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Fired up by those headlines, Labour MPs demanded a Commons debate about the Royal Family’s finances. Fearing embarrassment, William found his father uncertain about his own era, facing neither forwards nor backwards. Fearing that far more damaging revelations would follow about Andrew and Sarah after the next release by the Department of Justice in Washington of millions more of Epstein’s email exchanges with Andrew about young women introduced by Epstein which included a still unknown arrangement to host one woman in Buckingham Palace – and even compromising photographs – he cut short Charles’s indecision. The heir demanded that Andrew be evicted from Royal Lodge and be stripped of his title as prince. The alternative,<span id="page_401"/> Charles was told, was a crisis with untold consequences for the monarchy. Charles was given no alternative. Suddenly, legal constraints were no longer a barrier. The King simply signed a letters patent.</p>
<p class="txt">Late on 30th October, the Palace announced that Andrew was reduced to a commoner. He would move to Sandringham and henceforth would be called Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor. Committed to internal exile, his downfall was complete. On BBC TV a live audience cheered the news. The King feared worse to come but could not have imagined his brother’s arrest in February 2026.</p>
<p class="txt">No other royal in modern British history had been similarly humiliated. The tremors of the unprecedented sanctions against Andrew must have shocked Harry. In public, he remained silent. In private, he realised that his own royal status was no longer invincible. Clearly, William was taking no prisoners. Once he was crowned as king, his brother might well show no mercy to him and Meghan. Insulted by all the criticism targeted from Montecito, Harry could anticipate that the Prince and Princess of Wales’s anger about Meghan’s misuse of her royal title for profit would tip the balance. William would undoubtedly rail against her disloyalty. He might even strip Archie and Lilibet of their titles.</p>
<p class="txt">Initially, it appeared that Meghan showed no concern about the threat. She always possessed the potential bombshell retaliation of publishing her memoirs if she was displeased. She refused to fear an event beyond her control. Instead, she appeared smiling with Harry in the midst of the Andrew crisis at a Los Angeles Dodgers baseball game to promote her As Ever Christmas selections.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-967" id="en0-967" role="doc-noteref">967</a></sup> The fans’ reaction to seeing the Sussexes in the stadium’s best seats was unfavourable. Some booed, complaining that the real hero, legendary basketball player Magic Johnson, was forced to sit behind the couple. Viewers said that Harry looked miserable. Knowing the dice was loaded against him, his position was very different from Meghan’s.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>