<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter 43</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-chapter">
<hgroup>
<h1 aria-level="1" class="cn" id="ct43" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sct43"><span id="page_402"/>CHAPTER 43</a></h1>
<p class="ct" role="doc-subtitle"><em>Make or Break</em></p>
</hgroup>
<p class="ftxt">In his desire for reconciliation, Harry planned to commemorate Remembrance Day by visiting veterans in Canada and publishing a short essay about his own ‘life of duty’ and the sacrifice and service of the fallen. ‘The Bond, The Banter, The Bravery – What it means to be British’ evoked in Harry’s words: ‘The banter of the mess, the clubhouse, the pubs, the stands, these are the things that make us British. I make no apology for it. I love it.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-968" id="en0-968" role="doc-noteref">968</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">Harry fixed the timing of his ‘royal’ visit to Toronto so he could return to California in time for a celebrity party on Saturday 8th November, just before Remembrance Day. Meghan had secured an invitation to Kris Jenner’s seventieth birthday party held at Jeff Bezos’s $165 million home – a destination for America’s royalty. After being excluded from Bezos’s sixtieth birthday party and his $50 million wedding in Venice, securing an invitation to a celebration alongside dozens of famous American titans was gold dust for Meghan. The Sussexes could network with Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, Kim Kardashian’s family, Beyoncé, Mariah Carey and, relevantly, lifestyle guru Martha Stewart. Photographed arriving at the party, which was themed around James Bond’s <em>Casino Royale</em>, Meghan sported her usual perma-smile. Curiously, the official photos of the Sussexes inside the party were <span id="page_403"/>deleted at their request from Kris Jenner’s site.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-969" id="en0-969" role="doc-noteref">969</a></sup> The Sussexes’ hosts were said to be furious about the snub.</p>
<p class="txt">Throughout the evening, Harry struggled to grin. There was more bad news from London. Kensington Palace was angry that Harry’s trip to Canada had clashed with William’s choreographed award of The Earthshot Prize in Rio de Janeiro, which had been awarded to Colombia. Harry appeared to have deliberately embarrassed his brother’s bid to win public approval. Harry’s claim to have warned the Palace of his trip was vehemently denied by William’s officials.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-970" id="en0-970" role="doc-noteref">970</a></sup> Highlighting Harry’s ‘lies’ while he partied with the Kardashians sealed his image as a man struggling with his past and no longer fashioning his future. Not least because on the eve of Harry’s trial against the <em>Daily Mail</em>, there had been an unfortunate upset.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry and his fellow litigants had been persuaded by their barrister, David Sherborne, to start the case against the <em>Mail.</em> As we’ve seen, the claims made against the newspaper were corroborated by a statement allegedly signed by Gavin Burrows, a private investigator who admitted a range of crimes against Harry in August 2021, but then denied the truthfulness of the ‘original statement’. Despite the contradiction, and reassured by his lawyers, Harry assumed his claim against the <em>Mail</em> would be as successful as those against the <em>Mirror</em> and News Corp<em>.</em> Harry’s certainty was derailed shortly before Kris Jenner’s party. The <em>Mail</em> had presented to the court a new statement by Burrows. In explicit detail, the private investigator described how his original statement was a ‘forgery’ created by Harry’s lawyers. Burrows stated that not only was the statement ‘completely false’ and ‘a complete fantasy’, but he had been paid £5,000 a month by Harry’s team for assistance, despite insisting that he never worked for the <em>Mail</em>. Doreen Lawrence, continued Burrows, had been ‘tricked’ by the lawyers to start her claim against the <em>Mail</em> on the basis of the forged statement. Similarly, Harry, Liz Hurley and Elton John had also been ‘duped’ by Burrows’s ‘statement’.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_404"/>Pertinently, Burrows described how he had been taken to a London park by Harry’s solicitor and Graham Johnson, a convicted phone hacker, to meet Sherborne. When the barrister arrived, said Burrows, ‘he looked like he had not slept. He was unable to stand still and spoke rapidly and slightly incoherently.’</p>
<p class="txt">In a further signed statement, Burrows described how Graham Johnson offered to pay him £5,000 per month and did pay him £25,000 for a book deal while encouraging him to admit that he had worked for the <em>Mail</em>. ‘They told me that the <em>Daily Mail</em> was a major target,’ Burrows stated. ‘I told them repeatedly that I had not worked for the <em>Mail</em> . . . I had told him a hundred times that ANL were not one of my clients.’ And Burrows also added, ‘I felt very sorry for Baroness Lawrence, as it appeared to me that she had been duped into pursuing a claim on the basis of false information about evidence obtained by me.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-971" id="en0-971" role="doc-noteref">971</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In the High Court after the weekend of Jenner’s party, Sherborne’s embarrassment was professionally concealed. He condemned the ‘scurrilous nature’ of Burrows’s new statement as a ‘grotesque inclusion [into the case] which is meant to be an attack on parts of the legal team’. But the damage to Harry’s claim could not be hidden. Even the Prince understood that his claim appeared to be weakened. If he actually lost the case, the embarrassment would hamper his attempts to re-establish himself in Britain. However, he fought back. In a witness statement, Harry claimed that Burrows personally had told him how he had ‘intercepted’ the voicemails of a former girlfriend Laura Gerard-Leigh and her parents. And to boost the attack on ANL, Sherborne claimed that between 2003 and 2005, they had intercepted calls involving two of the other claimants – Sadie Frost and Elizabeth Hurley. But not Harry.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-972" id="en0-972" role="doc-noteref">972</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">The hurdles of managing Harry’s return to Britain were highlighted in the <em>Daily Mail</em>. Illustrated by a photograph of Harry arriving at Kris Jenner’s party, the newspaper noted that while Harry wore a poppy on his tuxedo, Meghan had not. The Duchess, the article implied, had <span id="page_405"/>betrayed the nation whose royal title she exploited. Two days later, Meghan posted a photograph of herself wearing a poppy. She had finally understood the danger William posed to her professional existence. His revenge for her betrayal could be crushing.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes’ fate depended entirely on William and Kate. Harry had not helped his cause by refuting in <em>Spare</em> the popular belief that William had been his advocate and protector in the aftermath of Diana’s death. Harry’s criticism of William for ignoring him at Eton and thereafter had hurt his elder brother. Harry’s heartless betrayal of William and Kate appeared to have sealed his fate. Reconciliation and a return to Britain was beyond imagination. Treachery in the Royal Family was rarely rewarded – as Harry and Meghan realised. And yet, as Harry infamously screamed after hearing that Meghan could be denied instant access to a tiara before their wedding, ‘What Meghan wants, Meghan gets.’ Few had anticipated the Duchess’s strategy as they headed towards their endgame.</p>
<p class="txt">In autumn 2025, the Sussexes faced a harsh reality. They were fast running out of money. With high security costs, the Sussexes needed every year at least $3 million after paying tax to survive. The Netflix and Spotify contracts had come to an end. Both Sussexes relied on a dribble of money from Harry’s occasional speeches and Meghan’s endorsement of fashion brands. The foreign tours and the Invictus competition had been especially lucrative. No further announcement had been issued about the sale of As Ever’s products. Profits were assumed to be dire. Yet a ‘leak’ suggested that Meghan had sold one million pots of jam and produced profits of $30 million (£27 million). Few thought that was credible. Not least because her office never confirmed the ‘report’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-973" id="en0-973" role="doc-noteref">973</a></sup> Indeed, it later transpired that the vast amounts of unsold As Ever products were spilling out of Netflix’s headquarters.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-974" id="en0-974" role="doc-noteref">974</a></sup> And her second series was ranked 1,016th in Netflix’s most popular shows. Just two million watched over six months, a show described by the <em>Guardian</em> as ‘so boring, so contrived, so effortlessly whimsical’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-975" id="en0-975" role="doc-noteref">975</a></sup> But <span id="page_406"/>it was just one of several stories in the new year fitting the Sussexes’ latest narrative. They contrived to present themselves as destined not only to be welcomed back to Britain but even to be given Highgrove, the King’s beloved country home in Gloucestershire, to make the royal couple appear cherished and comfortable.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-976" id="en0-976" role="doc-noteref">976</a></sup> The reality was different.</p>
<p class="txt">Among the Sussexes’ costly failures they realised during 2025 was the Archewell Foundation. Having failed to raise any new donations, the accounts filed in December 2025 revealed an organisation on the edge. Archewell’s income had fallen from $5.3 million to just $2.1 million, that donation a historic commitment which would not be renewed.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-977" id="en0-977" role="doc-noteref">977</a></sup> More startling, Archewell gave away just $1.2 million, mostly in small $27,500 donations, but its expenses were $3.9 million. There was no explanation of how the Sussexes spent any of that money. With no substantial donations due in 2026, and with $8 million in the bank, the Sussexes decided to wrap up their ‘charitable’ activities. Renaming the Archewell Foundation as ‘Archewell Philanthropies’, the Sussexes transferred their whole campaign to an existing group, Parents Together.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-978" id="en0-978" role="doc-noteref">978</a></sup> Naturally, the Sussexes spun their defeat as a success. The change, they said, would ‘broaden their global philanthropic efforts for meaningful reach and maximum impact’. In reality, they seemed to many to be abandoning their core purpose – philanthropy, even if it was financed by others.</p>
<p class="txt">The closure on the eve of Christmas appeared carefully calibrated to conceal their distress.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-979" id="en0-979" role="doc-noteref">979</a></sup> While announcing the dismissal of a slew of ‘junior’ staff, they had discreetly also fired two key employees: Archewell’s executive director James Holt, who had been in post for five years, and Meredith Maines, their media spokeswoman. Maines was the eleventh publicist to leave in five years. Liam Maguire, based in London, would in future manage their media operation. To Americans, that appeared bizarre. There was an eight-hour time difference between London and Los Angeles. Except that behind the smokescreen praising their success, <span id="page_407"/>the Sussexes had initiated a plan conceived months earlier to salvage their finances and reputations.</p>
<p class="txt">The Sussexes aimed for nothing less than to be reinstated in London by the King as trusted members of the Royal Family. The vehicle for their triumphant return – just as Harry had originally intended – would be the Invictus Games to be held in July 2027 in Birmingham. From the outset, Harry had plotted for the King to open the Games as the backdrop for Meghan, accompanied by their children, to dominate the media.</p>
<p class="txt">Rehabilitating the Sussexes relied on their publicists steadily placing favourable stories to grateful journalists. But no sooner had the Sussexes’ publicists choreographed a slew of videos of their public appearances and photographs of their children – with the children’s faces more exposed than previously – than Thomas Markle was reported on 5th December to be dangerously ill in a Philippines hospital.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-980" id="en0-980" role="doc-noteref">980</a></sup> Suffering a huge blood clot in his thigh, doctors in Cebu had amputated his left lower leg. By his bedside, Caroline Graham, a trusted British journalist, reported that Thomas hoped to hear from his daughter ‘one more time before I die’. Thomas added, ‘I feel so sad that our family has grown so far apart. Please let bygones be bygones.’</p>
<p class="txt">Likely aware that the world was waiting to see how she would respond, Meghan’s office announced that she had ‘reached out to her father’.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-981" id="en0-981" role="doc-noteref">981</a></sup> That was inaccurate. First, Meghan claimed to have emailed him – he did not receive those messages – and then she explained that she was unable to call him because she no longer had his telephone number. Yet his number had not changed in twenty years, her mother had Thomas’s number and, if all else failed, Meghan’s office could have asked Caroline Graham. Instead, Meghan’s office aggressively denounced Graham’s presence at Thomas’s bedside as ‘breaching clear ethical boundaries’. At a time when most would have expected her to show compassion for her father, Meghan asserted her need for privacy. Eventually, her office asked Graham for Thomas’s contact details. Meghan’s letter was delivered to <span id="page_408"/>Thomas by an American diplomat. Within hours, Meghan breached her own privacy by announcing her letter’s delivery. But she refused to fly to her father’s bedside. His hope for reconciliation was rebuffed. ‘It was surreal,’ wrote Graham, a witness to Thomas’s anguish.</p>
<p class="txt">Showing a disdain for the interruption, the Sussexes’ office resumed its timetable. Journalists were briefed that Harry expected Ravec to overturn its previous decision and agree that the police after all would provide armed protection during his visits to Britain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-982" id="en0-982" role="doc-noteref">982</a></sup> A new risk assessment, Harry claimed, was under way following a female stalker approaching him during the previous visit. Although the stalker had posed no threat to his life, Harry hoped that raising the issue would embarrass the government to surrender. If the government provided armed security, Harry and Meghan believed, their status as members of the Royal Family would be restored.</p>
<p class="txt">Soon after, the first drip of news management of 2026 appeared. <em>The Times</em> reported that Harry would refuse to re-engage with Sentebale. In reality, Harry had lost any role in Sentebale and Sophie Chandauka was rebuilding the charity. Harry’s important focus was on winning his case against the <em>Mail</em>. The star witness appeared on 21st January.</p>
<p class="txt">Harry was in a combative mood. He was not in court to answer questions but to declare how ‘disgusting’ and ‘disgraceful’ the <em>Mail</em> and especially its editor Paul Dacre had behaved. ‘I have never believed that my life is open season to be commercialised by these people,’ said the author of <em>Spare</em>. After denying that he used a Facebook account under the name Mr Mischief to ‘exchange friendly messages’ and his mobile number with the <em>Mail</em> journalist Charlotte Griffiths, he also denied meeting her in Ibiza in 2011. ‘The only time I’ve been to Ibiza was with my wife and son,’ declared Harry. He also denied that he had spoken about Chelsy Davy to friends at a campfire in Botswana which led to a <em>Mail on Sunday</em> article in November 2004 under the headline: ‘Harry besotted with Chelsy, his first true love’. The story, he claimed, <span id="page_409"/>could only have been sourced by hacking. His assertion appeared to be disproved by a passage in <em>Spare</em> and an email exchange immediately after the event. The email revealed that despite Harry’s denial, a friend around the campfire had been the source of the <em>Mail</em>’s story.</p>
<p class="txt">After a brief and placid cross-examination, Harry told the judge, ‘To sit here and go through this again and to hear them claim in their defence that I don’t have any right to privacy is disgusting.’ He fought back tears: ‘They have made my wife’s life an absolute misery, my lord.’ Harry walked out, leaving many bewildered. Many were also puzzled whether Harry had proved his case or whether his denials had lit a fuse for the <em>Mail</em>’s journalists to explode his credibility in their testimony. The <em>Mail’</em>s softly-softly approach suggested that Paul Dacre had decided to persuade the judge that his newspapers were gentle and fair, never unfairly seeking to score points.</p>
<div aria-label="Section break" class="astbreak" role="separator">* * *</div>
<p class="ftxt">Harry would not allow the High Court embarrassment to derail his quest to use the Invictus Games for his family’s return to Britain. But in choosing Birmingham, Harry had unwittingly exposed himself to unexpected controversy: the toxic reality of a city in turmoil, mired by threats of protest.</p>
<p class="txt">Among the twenty-two countries invited to compete in Birmingham was Israel. Inevitably, their small team would be drawn from former members of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) injured fighting Hamas and Hezbollah in Gaza, Lebanon and Syria. In Vancouver, their 22-man squad had been warmly received and won thirteen medals, but the competitors had been asked not to parade their identity or flag outside the Convention Centre.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-983" id="en0-983" role="doc-noteref">983</a></sup> That reticence would be futile in 2027.</p>
<p class="txt">One-third of Birmingham’s population is Muslim. Influenced by some Islamic mullahs and politicians in the city, the local police force decided in November 2025 to ban Maccabi Tel Aviv football fans from <span id="page_410"/>watching their team play Aston Villa. The unprecedented prohibition by a city safety group was based on Birmingham’s police presenting false ‘intelligence’ about the dangers the Israeli fans posed to Muslims. The phoney intelligence satisfied the local authority’s search for a reason to bar the Israelis coming to Birmingham, as confirmed by a parliamentary report in February 2026.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-984" id="en0-984" role="doc-noteref">984</a></sup></p>
<p class="txt">In reality, the police knew that the violence was actually threatened <em>against</em> the visiting Israelis. Instead of protecting the Maccabi fans, the police concocted a scenario of hundreds of Israeli hoodlums, apparently all former IDF soldiers, planning to attack peaceful Muslims. However, within three weeks, newspapers began to report the police’s misconduct. In particular, the chief constable, Craig Guildford, was blamed for the dishonesty. Damned in mid-January 2026 by an official report, Guildford refused initially to resign. His hand was not forced by the local crime commissioner, a Corbyn sympathiser overseeing a beleaguered police force accused of being ‘rotten to the core’. Ultimately, Guildford was compelled to retire, but the Birmingham police force remained in turmoil.</p>
<p class="txt">The challenge for Harry and the Invictus Games was existential. Would Birmingham’s Muslim activist community allow an Israeli team to peacefully compete in their city? Based on the Maccabi experience, that would be difficult to envisage.</p>
<p class="txt">Some also perceived Harry’s position on Israel to be uncertain. Harry’s public statements on Israel were watched closely, particularly after the Hamas attacks murdered 1,200 Israelis and took 251 hostages on 7th October 2023. While Harry had visited Invictus competitors in Australia, Nigeria, Brazil, Colombia, Ukraine, America, Germany and Britain, he had not visited Israel. Pertinently, he had visited war-torn Ukraine twice in 2025.</p>
<p class="txt">Israel’s war was highlighted by Archewell’s 2025 Impact Report. ‘This year we have witnessed unimaginable suffering, from the preventable tragedy which unfolded in Gaza where thousands of innocent children <span id="page_411"/>and civilians faced starvation and death . . .’ <sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-985" id="en0-985" role="doc-noteref">985</a></sup> The Impact Report did not mention the 1,200 Israelis murdered on 7th October 2023 or the fate of the 251 hostages whose imprisonment was widely condemned elsewhere – and whose eventual release would be a part of the agreement to end the war, while at the same time they highlighted the suffering faced by innocent Palestinians. Pertinently, the Sussexes flew to Jordan on 23 February as guests of the World Health Organisation to visit Palestinian refugee camps, but did not cross the border to visit Israeli victims of Hamas.</p>
<p class="txt">After the 7th October massacres, King Charles and the Prince and Princess of Wales had specifically mentioned ‘the horrors inflicted by Hamas’s terrorist attack upon Israel’ as ‘appalling’ and supported ‘Israel exercising its right of self-defence’. The Sussexes stated, ‘We stand against all acts of terrorism and brutality,’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-986" id="en0-986" role="doc-noteref">986</a></sup>and offered ‘support’ for those ‘on the frontlines in Israel’. A further clue of Harry’s attitude towards Israel was his agreement to promote <em>Spare</em> by appearing in an extensive interview with Gabor Maté, the Canadian trauma expert, who had made controversial statements about Hamas, comparing them to the Jewish heroes of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising against the Nazis. Harry ignored the calls in the press to reconsider being interviewed by Maté.</p>
<p class="txt">The anticipated reception of Invictus in the UK in 2027 poses a challenge not only to Harry but also the King. Could the monarch allow himself to be embroiled in the inevitable protests, after the negative press the royal family had suffered over the preceding months and years? And more to the point, could the King allow himself to be influenced by his son, who still demanded an apology from his father, brother and sister-in-law? Considering all the damning words and lies spoken and written by the Sussexes against the Royal Family since 2021, and the enormous damage caused by the Sussexes’ exploitation of their royal titles, the chance of the King irritating the Prince and Princess of Wales to please the Sussexes is, in Spring 2026, remote.</p>
<p class="txt"><span id="page_412"/>The Royal Family’s vulnerability was further exposed on 19th February after the early morning arrest by Thames Valley police of Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor at his home in Sandringham. Questioned about his possible misconduct in public office in a local police station, as any suspect of a crime would be, Andrew had been exposed in the Epstein files for passing confidential government documents about trade relations and policies in the Far East to the American investor in 2010. The arrest of a royal in the line of succession, the first since Charles I in 1647, triggered a catastrophic crisis for the King. On the same day the monarchy’s credibility was hotly disputed. Although no one could authoritatively predict whether Andrew would be charged, the former prince’s appalling relationships with women who had been introduced to him by a convicted paedophile compounded the King’s humiliation.</p>
<p class="txt">Unexpectedly, Charles was paying the price for the delayed expulsion of his brother from his Windsor home and the Royal Family. Amid the fevered public debate, fundamental changes and transparency were demanded for the Royal Family’s finances and their status. Even normally moderate voices spoke of the King’s abdication, which would be a death sentence for the constitutional monarchy.</p>
<p class="txt">In Montecito, the Sussexes could take little comfort from Buckingham Palace’s turmoil. In <em>Spare</em>, Harry had scoffed about the unequal treatment of himself and ‘my uncle Andrew’: ‘Whatever grievances people had against us, sex crimes weren’t on the list.’<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="053-Endnotes.xhtml#nr0-987" id="en0-987" role="doc-noteref">987</a></sup> Yet grouped with Andrew as a renegade, Harry was flummoxed about escaping from the association. The inevitability of a protracted crisis during the official process of deciding Andrew’s fate made Harry’s position increasingly difficult. While the royal calamity continued to make headline news in Britain, the Sussexes’ fate slipped further beyond their control. Their plight could only worsen.</p>
<p class="txt">The feud embroiling the Royal family is far from resolution, and it remains to be seen what damage will be inflicted on an already fragile family.</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>