<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Acknowledgements</title>

<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:cf106c0d-ccdc-4433-b715-c9cdc572d38c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="acknowledgements">
<h1 aria-level="1" class="prect" id="ack" role="heading"><a href="006-Contents.xhtml#sack"><span id="page_413"/><em>Acknowledgements</em></a></h1>
<p class="ftxt">Writing a second book about Harry and Meghan follows the positive reaction to my first book <em>Revenge</em> and pertinently unearthing new, remarkable developments since 2021. It also meets the insatiable interest in the Sussexes and the ever-changing and challenging predicament of the British Royal Family.</p>
<p class="txt">Discovering the truth while denied access to the Sussexes depends on the trust of reliable witnesses and the determination to find what, for different reasons, has been concealed. Fortunately, many people agreed to help on condition of anonymity.</p>
<p class="txt">In writing this book, no one was more important than Claudia Wordsworth, an outstanding, determined researcher and an invaluable guide to previously untold aspects of this extraordinary story. As always, Claudia exceeded all expectations. I owe her a great debt.</p>
<p class="txt">I received significant help in America from Tom Teodorczuk, Peter Sheridan and especially from Mary Jo Jacobi; Paulina Diazgranados was indefatigable in Colombia; and I owe Mark Hollingsworth thanks in London. Many others helped but preferred to remain anonymous. Clearly, I am indebted to all of them.</p>
<p class="txt">Once again, I was fortunate that Alan Samson, an outstanding <span id="page_414"/>publisher, agreed to edit the manuscript. Alan surpassed expectations. Thanks also to David Hirst for his legal advice.</p>
<p class="txt">As always, I am especially grateful to my loyal agent Jonathan Lloyd of Curtis Brown, an outstanding friend and ally.</p>
<p class="txt">My publishers have been hugely supportive. I owe a special debt to my editor Ciara Lloyd and also to Liz Marvin, Ian Greensill and Amanda Russell.</p>
<p class="txt">The most important thanks are due to Veronica, my wife, best friend, wise consigliore and irreplaceable supporter. Without her, as always, this book would not have been written.</p>
<br/>
<p class="ftxt">London, February 2026</p>
</section>

</body>
</html>